I know that you are eager to start putting Kanban into practice using a

professional tool, and we will do it soon.

However, first, you need to learn Kanban fundamentals,

which is this section's goal.

Without being aware of them, any Kanban implementation is doomed to failure.

In the industry, you'll see people using the terms Kanban,

Kanban System, and Kanban Method.

What is the difference between them?

Let's discuss this topic right now.

“Kanban” is a Japanese word that means “visual signals” or “visual cards.”

For example, going back to our agency example, we used cards

to signal each article's status.

Thus, Kanban can be understood as a fancy word for "card".

What about the Kanban System?

Kanban System, also known as Kanban Product System, refers to the Pull

System we have previously discussed.

Recall that the Pull System enables us to work with minimal waste and low inventory

levels, meaning that we have only the necessary for the production process, be

it to produce articles, cars, or whatever.

Thus, the Kanban System is equivalent to the Pull System.

And last but not least, what about the Kanban Method?

The Kanban Method includes Kanban and the Kanban System and goes beyond them.

It is the modern version of what Toyota created in 1953.

The Kanban Method was created recently, in 2010, by David Anderson, and

brings an approach to Kanban focused on promoting continuous improvement

to the organization's processes.

Its focus on continuous improvement is what makes it go

beyond being just a pull system.

In addition to the pull system, it contains principles, values, good

practices, strategies, and guidelines.

For this reason, I like to say that Toyota found the diamond and our

friend, David Anderson, polished the diamond to have much more value.

In other words, Anderson described the Kanban Method in a way that made it

applicable to many industry domains, including software development and market.

In practice, we call the Kanban Method “Kanban” for simplicity.

From now on, in this course, whenever I say Kanban, I am

referring to the Kanban Method, not the card or Kanban System, okay?

In the following lecture, let's go over the four fundamental

principles of the Kanban Method.

See you're there!
