To get started.

Your first lesson is: being a leader is not being a boss.

So if you think...

hm, I want to be a leader because I want to command other people.

No, there are people who think that when they gain authority over others,

they become an untouchable God.

And now they just need to define what to do, give people commands, and

they need and will follow the orders.

This viewpoint could not be worse.

Considering the evolution that we have had in people management and people

leadership during the last few decades.

So if you have a boss like this, well, he's not a leader.

He's just a person with deep issues.

There's a big difference between boss and leader.

If you put it on the internet search on Google for "Boss and leader,"

you will find countless hundreds, thousands of articles, texts, and

videos talking about the differences between being a boss and being a leader.

Favoring you to be a leader.

So what is the difference between boss and leader?

Boss is the guy who has a position above yours, and therefore you

are obligated to obey to him.

And you obey him because it's your job.

With a boss, he will tell you what to do, and you will obey because

you don't want to lose your job.

The guy has a position.

He's above you.

And then, you and all the other team members are going to obey,

just because you have to obey.

Have you ever had to deal with someone like this?

How did you feel about him?

Did you like him?

Did you look forward to working for him for a long time?

I'll tell you one thing.

Companies lose great people because of having bad leadership.

A lot of people, they leave their boss, not their job, not the company.

Conversely, the leader is the one that you will follow.

You admire your leader.

Because leaders, they don't need to demonstrate power because

of their current position.

Their power is on their ideas.

The inspiration that they offer to their team.

For you to lead, you don't need to have a higher position.

It's not about hierarchy.

It's about how you behave and inspire people.

It's about listening to people and guiding them.

Being a boss is about telling people what to do.

Leading is about guiding the people and getting your hands dirty.

There are many leaders who are not bosses, and there are many

bosses who are not leaders.

There are many people who have the position, have the

authority of the position, but do not know how to be a leader.

They can't inspire their teams.

They are unable to make their teams work for him, but only for his position.

Just as there are many people who are leaders who are inspiring, who make

people listen and follow what they see, but they do not necessarily have

a high position in the organization.

Leadership is not associated with a position.

Leading is a function you take over, and so you inspire other people to do what

you need because they understand and trust you to do what you need to be done.

So it is important that you understand this difference and take the first step

to lead you, to develop as a leader, and not to prepare yourself to be a boss.

When dealing with a boss, you are afraid to go to his office.

You arrive at the door.

Before entering, you take a deep breath, summon up some

courage, and then you get in.

The leader is the one who leads you.

You want, you desire to be called, to go to his office.

You know he wants to make you grow.

He always seeks to guide you.

He wants to see you always on the best path.

And then you enter his room with the greatest pleasure.

You want to be with him as much as possible.

You know you're going to leave that room better than you got in.

Maybe you will not leave happy, because maybe you made a

mistake and got a fair scolding.

But, you will leave with extra learning because a good leader,

he corrects without offending.

He guides without humiliating.

The boss, on the other hand, makes use of power.

For him, if you made a mistake, you are weak.

You are not able, you are very bad.

"Be careful, or I will get you fired.

If you make this again...

be very careful.

I will fire you."

So the boss, they always threaten people.

The boss is always ashamed.

The boss is heavy, where he doesn't need to be heavy.

And often, he doesn't have a sense of justice, and he wants

simply to show his power.

He wants people to continue to fear him and obey him because of the power

he has for the position he holds.

While the leader inspires you, they make you move forward.

The boss, I even joke, the boss expires.

The boss makes you empty.

They demotivate you.

He doesn't give you any reason to be close to him and to want to learn from him.

And, there are other characteristics that make a good leader.

The leader is even more than inspiration.

A leader leads the team to do their best to follow him.

Leaders are very proactive.

Instead of waiting, they will seek.

Instead of complaining about the darkness, they light the candle.

So you must seek to develop to the maximum, all of this within you.

The characteristics of a leader, be proactive, seek to inspire people,

show them why they are important,

follow their work, guide them.

So that they can get better and better.

And if they get it wrong, show them the right way.

Give them the drill, the right measure.

Recognize when they did a good job so that they have the

pleasure of working with you.

Of giving you their best.

So that you can together achieve success because they know they

see that you are a fair person.

Someone who seeks everyone's growth.

And is not there simply to give an order, but to extract from them the best.

Someone who seeks everyone's growth.

And is not there simply to give an order.

Because the leader takes something from a person but also leaves something.

And now that you understand a little bit about what it means to be a leader, I

can tell you calmly that if you listen to what I told you several times,

you start putting it into your mind,

you start trying to develop it.

Develop these characteristics, develop your leader profile.

It is already enough to bring transformation in your life.

In relation to being a leader.

Whenever you interact with people, try to follow the steps.

Afterward, reflect on what happened.

Analyze if you acted like a good leader or not.

Reflect on your behavior after a meeting, for instance.

Or after a workday, have you been acting like a leader?

If not, what do you need to do to get better?

To help you to light your way, I will leave here five tips that, if

you understand, follow, seek with determination and courage, you will

certainly be able to become a good leader.

Ready?

So let's move to the next lecture.