The first step is to forget your comfort zone and develop your communication.

Having good communication is an essential skill for any leader.

Because whoever leads other people is always communicating.

Whether with your team, customers, partners, managers, C-level executives.

Leadership involves a lot, a lot of communication.

Who officially works as a leader, for example, a project manager, has about 70%

of their tasks related to communication.

Whether by email, by phone, by voice, 70% of their effort they spend communicating.

So, express yourself well.

Be clear, objective, use your tone of voice, the correct body language,

and the right words, according to the occasion, according to

the people with who you are

communicating with.

Sometimes, you will need to be more formal.

And sometimes being formal might be a good idea to make people

around you more comfortable.

The more you have this ability, the more you will be valued, not only

as a leader but as a professional.

The more you develop this, the more valued you will be simply because most people

don't have great communication skills.

And you might have already noticed this.

Try to remember your colleagues at work, your college colleagues, maybe

even some of your college professors.

How many of them communicated well?

I bet that most of them were pretty bad.

Conversely, you might have also realized that there are some people

that seem like they

were born to be a good communicator because they're so engaging; so inspiring.

So, first of all...

if you already have good communication skills, great!

One item on your list for you to scratch.

You will only need to polish, refine those skills so that they get better and better.

But if you don't have good communication skills, which is more likely since most

people don't have good communication, given the statistics, I want to tell

you that it is possible; it is totally possible for you to develop this skill.

And to prove it to you, I'm going to tell you a little bit about my experience.

How I won and overcome this everyday challenge of communicating well.

When I decided that I had to develop my communication skills, first of

all, the first thing I had to do was: "get out of my comfort zone."

Put it in your head that you have this challenge.

You will have to get out of your comfort zone.

You will have to embrace this challenge and make it your priority.

Nobody can do that for you.

It is a personal skill that you need to develop within yourself.

When I was in high school and even in college, I wasn't really

interested in being a

good communicator.

I graduated in computer engineering, and at that point, I only cared

about the technical stuff.

I was excited to learn about developing software, electrical

circuits, calculus, but I didn't really care about communication

or anything related to leadership.

In fact, to be honest, I didn't really like to work in groups.

I would rather do everything by myself.

I went to college in the USA, and over there, I played on

the university's tennis team.

When I still had one semester to graduate, I couldn't play tennis

anymore due to restrictions from the league; just some bureaucracy stuff.

So, since I had the scholarship for playing tennis, the university decided

to keep giving me the scholarship, but instead of playing, I would work

as the tennis team's assistant coach.

At this point, things started to change a little bit.

I used to play for the team, and I was the number one player in singles and doubles.

But as I said, I didn't really care at that point about being seen as a leader.

So other guys were the team captain.

I had a great relationship with everybody on the team, all the guys and girls.

And I consider most of them as my good friends until today.

But I didn't really play the role of a leader.

So my communication skills were more tailored to be as good, as

good as it can be within friends.

But now, I was the assistant coach.

Of course, most of them were already my friends, but since I was in a coaching

position, they started to look at me as someone who could help them to evolve and

improve as a tennis player and person.

So, they would come and ask for advice about how to improve

their techniques, how to deal

with high-pressure moments

during matches.

They would come and talk to me when they were having a hard time,

for instance, with the coach.

So they would come for ask for help, for solutions, for guidance.

And also, when I was a player, my perspective was more selfish.

I only cared about winning.

When I was the assistant coach, I had a broader view and felt that

I had the mission to help the good players to be great ones.

And

also the not-so-good ones,

the ones who were seen as backups to become more motivated, to

become good players, be tougher, and to have a winner mentality.

That's when I started to improve my communication skills, I started

studying more about tennis coaching, leadership, and that's when I

ended up getting interested in project management and Scrum.

At the end of the semester, I got a job offer to come back to Brazil

and work as a Scrum Master , which is a leadership role, in a startup.

So picture this: I was young, just graduated, just starting up my career.

And I was working as a Scrum Master in a startup, which had

some of the best developers around.

Some of them are the best I've known until this day.

They were very experienced and knowledgeable.

A little intimidating, right?

I remember my first day at work.

Less than an hour after I arrived, I had to lead the first planning

meeting with the entire team.

And of course, I wasn't expecting this.

I thought my first days, my first weeks, I would have some

training or something more lighter.

But no, no.

First day, first hour, first meeting.

So, yes, I had to mature really fast.

However, I already had some experience communicating with

groups, given my assistant coach experience, so it helped a little bit.

Of course, when I started, I wasn't great.

However, I continuously improved, given the reflections that I

would make about my performance.

Fast forward, and a few years later, I already had a Tenure

Track professor position.

And I was teaching and traveling all around the world to

present talks and conferences.

So, I started to learn how to communicate better, first, dealing

with a few young tennis players, which some of them were already my friends.

I evolved and started to deal with more experienced, knowledgeable

people in the workplace; management, customers ... Then I became a

college professor and researcher and started to give talks worldwide.

You can see that it was like a stairway.

One step at a time.

It's not about building the wall.

It's about putting a brick.

And then, another one, you don't start trying to communicate

with a thousand people.

You start by mastering communicating with one person and then a group of people.

And then dealing with people in higher

positions, directors, managers,

customers, C-level executives, and so on.

It's a process.

Successful people are more used to being outside their

comfort zone than inside it.

Thus, even if you already consider yourself a good communicator, try

to get out of your comfort zone.

So, the first tip is if you need to develop your communication.

Don't miss an opportunity to practice.

You will get there.

If you want to go far and succeed, then get used to being

away from your comfort zone.

If you're a person who needs to develop your communication,

then look for challenges.

Don't wait for them to arrive!

Seek challenges, volunteer, to give talks.

Actively participate in meetings.

I remember that I trained my communication at every opportunity.

I remember that, before

going for my first

lecture ever, which was during the examinations to be hired as a professor,

I trained a dozen times the same lecture.

I had a lot of friends to watch my lectures and give me feedback.

I would watch myself in the mirror, start with the end goal in mind, even

if you're going to make a presentation to one person, pretend that's for

a 1000, and get really prepared.

I did it during a period.

And now I'm confident that I can speak in front of anybody.

Of course, I feel a little anxious when I'm stepping up on stage, you know, some

butterflies, but this is totally normal.

Once you're confident that you are prepared enough, things flow naturally.

This is what happened to me.

And I want it to happen to you too!

If you have the opportunity to speak on the birthday, speak to your

family, to present a job at college,

if you are still an university

student, to present three slides at your company, or anywhere.

Try to make

the best slides of your life!

Seek to speak

the best speech of your life!

The secret

to developing communication

is to practice.

A good idea is to also watch great public speakers, get specific tips with public

speaking professionals, things like your posture, what to do with your hands,

where to look when you're communicating.

So I encourage you to study about public speaking, but you need to practice.

It is okay if you don't go too well on your first attempts.

Do you think Michael Jordan was good when he tried to shoot

his first ball?

Of course

not!

The important thing is to have a growth mindset.

Use every opportunity possible to learn how to become a better communicator.