It is a fact that developing communication skills is something that requires

more than a few minutes of training.

Still, specific techniques, incredibly, generate immediate results.

Let's start talking about them and start this course at full throttle.

In this lecture, I want to surprise you and prove, in practice, that you

can move from the place you are now and improve your communication skills.

In the following minutes, we will focus on how you can have a more

impactful and strategic communication.

You will improve your communication by only slightly adjusting some

phrases and words, which I am sure you have been using in your daily life.

For this purpose, we will follow only three steps.

The first step is to identify harmful speech patterns that

have hindered your communication.

The second step is to identify efficient speech patterns that you can use to

better express what you want to convey.

And the third step is to strengthen within your mind the speech

patterns define in step two.

To start this exercise, please, take a look at the spreadsheet attached to this

lecture as a resource, and notice that we have two lists: on the left side, we

have at least called "harmful", and on the right side, a list called "efficient."

We will start by thinking together about several expressions and

words that are harmful for our communication, but that we often use

in everyday life, both at work or home.

Next, we will identify the expression or new word that we will use to replace

that harmful or inefficient one that is sabotaging our communication.

Ready?

Let's go to practice, and you will understand this idea better.

I will start here with a controversial example: the first word that you

should eliminate from your expressions, especially at the workspace is

the word "idea"; that's right.

And why should you eliminate this word from your vocabulary?

Simply because no one cares about your ideas.

Have you ever stopped to think about it?

When you're talking with someone and want to solve a problem or even in a meeting

with other people, imagine what happens when I say this: "I think I have an idea."

Did I pass a message that I have a solution to the problem?

Have I transmitted confidence?

Did my message generate any impact?

Neither my verbal expression nor my body expression passed

any trustworthiness here.

To generate impact with your communication, you need to adjust

your vocabulary and use words and expressions appropriate to each context.

Are you at work?

Do you want to generate impact, to pass trustworthiness, to be

heard by everyone present, to have your message clearly received?

What people want to hear from you when they have a problem is a

solution, a proposition, a proper response, an answer to the problem.

So how about instead of saying, "I think I have an idea," saying," I

believe I have a solution for you."

You said what you wanted, that you have an idea.

Still, now you passed a totally different message, more serious, impressive..

Do you agree?

Let's go to the next examples.

How you feel about the expression "I think."?

Well, it is not that you cannot use it now and then.

The point is that "I think" is a weak expression that has no value because

anyone can think whatever he or she wants; for example, I can think

that the moon fits in my pocket, and nobody has anything to do with this.

Thus, don't use such a weak expression in a work meeting, because you want

others to have the impression that you have a relevant opinion to share.

Instead of using expressions like "I think the best solution is

solution X," say something like: "I believe this..., because of this..."

For example, "I believe that we must use solution X because I read about it, and

saw that there are some well-succeeded competitors that have already used

it in a similar context as ours."

Can you notice the difference in confidence, the credibility of

you saying, "I believe this...

because of this reason..."

instead of only saying "I think"?

Do you know what happens when you use this weak terms in your communication?

Probably you have been there at some point in your life.

You are in a conversation and then you give a solution, an idea, but

no one reacted to your speech.

Then, within 5 minutes, another person says exactly the same

thing, but speaking differently.

And everybody says, "Hey, great idea!

What a good solution."

Then you're like, "wait a minute.

I have just,...

you know,..

Nevermind."

This is why our list of harmful patterns versus efficient patterns is critical.

You must put it into practice.

You must frequently read it, study it and incorporate the efficient

patterns within your daily life.

Do you remember the three steps that I talked about at

the beginning of this lecture?

First, you identify harmful patterns in your daily communication.

Second, you identify efficient patterns that you must use, and that

will better express what you want.

And last, but not least, you must print out this list, put it on your bed's

mirror, and read it daily to reinforce in your mind efficient speech patterns

that you have defined in the second step.

Now, I recommend you stop watching the video lectures a little bit

and analyze the spreadsheet.

Add more patterns that you believe makes sense for you, and look at it daily.

Read it,absorb it, let these patterns enter your mind.

Incorporate them and practice them everyday in your communication.

And of course, if you need any help or suggestions, just shoot

me a message on the Q&A board.

And that will be more than happy to help.

Now.

Let's keep moving!