The second step is about working on your motivation and optimism.

As a leader, you must symbolize the motivation of many who will be led by you.

So, if you're a pessimistic person, you can prepare yourself because

your team will also be pessimistic.

There will be people who do not believe, who give up easily.

If you are optimistic, you will have a team

that will be affected by

your optimism.

Of course, everything has to be balanced.

But it is incredible how our attitude as leaders, our faith,

that we will succeed in the

project, how our courage ignites, inspires

the people we lead our team, understand that you, as a leader, are a reference.

You are a mirror.

Will be the match that will ignite the flame of the rest of your team.

When people on your team get discouraged by a promotion that didn't come, a

salary increase that didn't come.

They will come looking for you.

And what should they

find?

Someone who will agree

that this is the end for them?

That there is no way out?

That is comfortable with failure?

That is satisfied with failure?

Of course not.

They must find someone optimistic someone with creativity to give them

a new vision, to give them a new option, a new path, another solution,

a new wave to achieve their goals.

Someone that won't let them be discouraged.

Won't let them give up.

So be motivated, be optimistic.

People are usually not optimistic.

By doing this, you will be a channel to ignite your team to be

motivated and confident every day.

And it's also important to say that being optimistic is not being foolish, okay?

To believe that if even if you do wrong, everything will turn out well.

No!

This is being a fool.

Being optimistic is about not giving up on the first barrier and not

letting your team to do it either.

It is about believing that you can find

a second alternative.

It's about chasing the second alternative.

It is about not accepting defeat without having tried all

the possibilities of victory.

I learned a lot of things on the

tennis court.

Imagine this situation...

you're losing—match point

to the other guy.

Just one more point, and he wins.

He's really close, right?

Victory seems so far from your reach.

But, guess what?

There's still one more point for him to

score.

So, are you going to

give up?

Of course not!

I remember

once that I was losing

to

this guy...

6x0, 4x0...

I was being massacred.

I was playing

the worst ever.

Horrible!

And he was getting everything in.

But I didn't give up.

I kept trying, I ended up losing, but they almost

turned the match around.

There

were other situations too, where I was losing match

point down.

And I still ended up

winning the match.

So,

if you're pessimistic,

negative, I can assure you one thing you will fail.

If you are optimistic, you always have the hope to

keep moving and succeed.

But also,

don't let your optimism blind you.

You need to be realistic and always analyze your surroundings, your

context, make the best decisions.

I also lost matches where I was winning

match points, and I lost.

It hurted a lot.

Most of the times, it was because I was too optimistic.

It felt like the match was already done.

Okay, so you've gotta be optimistic always, but always be smart

enough to analyze the situation and make the best decisions.

During the course, we saw many techniques that can be used to

generate motivation in the team.

One is the team having a vision about the expected result.

Why is it important?

People in their nature they need to feel useful and understand

their importance in the project.

In order to be happy and motivated and give their best.

So I'm going to give you here a great advice.

As a project manager, as a leader, share key information about

your project with your team.

For instance, the vision can be shared during a project kickoff

meeting, the first project meeting.

Make sure to cease the first days of the project, boost your team by

letting them know the goals,

the priorities, and always make sure that they are aware of their

role and their importance, but also the importance of each other team

member for the project to succeed.

And after the kickoff meeting, to reinforce and motivate them even

more, you can call each one of your team members or other stakeholders in

particular.

And talk individually about their

importance, and that you are counting on them for the project to succeed.

Do you realize how much this simple thing can transform someone's

behavior within a project?

So, I don't know about your background.

If you already have an experience doing this, or if you're just starting

your career or still in college.

But if you have the experience, you know what I'm talking about.

If you haven't already,

trust me, train your communication, learn and develop the skills,

the characteristics of a

good leader.

And the time will

come when you will have the kickoff meeting of the project.

You will see how it works.

People get even more inspired.

You share the challenge with them and make clear their importance, the impact that

they have to lead the project to success.

This is something very powerful, and it works.

You will generate motivation and optimism in your team from

the beginning of your project.

Now, it is clear that it's

important that this remains throughout

the entire project.

You will not, for instance, in the middle of the project, your team makes

a mistake or the project is delayed, unforeseen events are happening, and then

suddenly you throw everything in the air.

No, you aren't the person who will hold the torch.

You must be the person who will look for

alternatives.

Who will say we were

wrong, but calm down.

Let's see what's the best way for us to recover from this error.

It will still work.

There will still be time.

Come on there.

We will do our best.

I count on you!

Do this, do that, talk to someone, do this here, try something else.

You need to direct them.

Guide them, encourage them.

You need to keep your team always in a good mood, always with

motivation, always with energy.

Of course, there will be hard times.

There'll be times when you will not even have the strength to do

this, but these must be

exceptions.

Normally, most of the time, you will be able to be a motivated person and

optimistic person, will inspire other

people, and make her team always

motivated.

A team that

doesn't give up.

Even when they mess up, they remain motivated and optimistic, doing their

best, believing that they will succeed.

Recover from the mistakes and complete the project successfully.

And that is why motivation and optimism are part of the profile of a good leader.