Few people know what empathy is and its importance, but the world

would be a thousand times better if people were more empathetic.

So tip three is: develop your empathy.

But, what is empathy?

Simply translated, it is the ability to put yourself in the shoes of another

person, is trying to understand what she's feeling, what she desires.

By developing empathy,

you can guide people better, understand them better.

In the case of leaders, empathy is mandatory.

Leaders need to be experts at this.

They must be empathetic.

When I am leading, I like to periodically call my team members just

to hear from them how they're doing.

If they're satisfied, if they're motivated, and then what do I do?

I try to practice my empathy to get better and better.

I try to understand what are their needs, what makes them happy,

what motivates each of them.

Then after I have a good understanding, I put myself in their

place to understand where they're

going.

What is the most important thing for them?

I try to give tips on how they can improve.

Set goals with them.

You collaborate with them to define how to reach their goals.

I really try to put myself in their shoes so that I can understand them better.

So that I can align what they desire with what I wish for them within the project.

And then, I can have an alignment between my expectations and their expectations.

Do you know how to have the best of your team members?

You put yourself in their shoes and understand what are their desires.

What are their dreams?

Their dreams of life, not just about the company.

Is it getting married, buying a car, owning a home, making a trip?

After you understand their desires, you do everything possible to align

their desires with the company's goals.

If you're able to do this, the team members are not going to be working

only to achieve the company's revenue, which is what the company wants.

They will be working for their dream.

And as a consequence, the company will also be successful.

And how does this work?

Imagine, for instance, that I come to you...

you are my team member.

And then I ask you, what is your dream?

And you tell me that your dream is to go to France.

You want to spend 15 days in France.

And then I ask you how much does it cost?

And you say $10,000.

And then I tell you, dude, look, this year, our goal is to earn something.

If you can do your part, if you can achieve this goal here, your

personal goal, you will have your trip at the end of the year.

Next January, you will be in France, and you all spend your 15 days

that you have been dreaming of.

What did I just do?

I try to understand your dream, your desire, what drives you.

And then try to align your dream with the goals for my project,

the goals for my organization.

This is one of the most famous and successful techniques for you to

get the support of your followers, the support of your employees.

They will give their best to the organization, their maximum.

The employee is dream.

Be a promotion, a salary, increase a vacation, a new

house, getting a PhD degree.

But if you have the necessary empathy and understand what is their desires,

what are the ambitions of each one of your team members understand their

needs, understand their profile.

You will work in favor of it, and you will not only have a goal

accomplished, but friendship trust, gratitude, and you'll see your

colleague happy to be doing their best.

This is one of the great characteristics of a leader.

The ability to make people do their best in a healthy, motivated, and happy way.

So, learn, practice, try to put yourself in other people's shoes.

You can even practice this at home with your wife, with your children, your

colleagues, your brothers, try to put yourself in their shoes because when

you do it, you will better understand the reasons for their decisions.

You will understand them better.

You will know how to satisfy them, and you will be better on

alligning their goals with yours.

And then with empathy comes confidence too.

Because look, if I call my team members for a conversation, if I try to know

how they're feeling, how they're doing, if I tryto understand them, then, well,

their wills, their dreams within the company, where do they want to go?

How can I help them better?

I gain their trust.

I gain their companionship.

They will know that I care for them.

They will know that I'm working for them.

And so they will work for me.

They will know that I want their best.

They will know that I value them and that I want them to work at my company.

Be part of my team to grow with me.

I want to help them grow.

I want to achieve success with them and I want to make their dreams come

true, but I will also align this with the dreams of my organization.

This is a very winning strategy.

It clearly requires on your part, a development related to empathy.

It is not technical.

It's not something you hear here and you can easily practice tomorrow.

It is something that requires you to practice continuously.

You need to continue to try to understand people, better, try

to put yourself in their place.

Try to understand why your team member ministry decision at some point, for

instance, but on second thought, what about if you were in his place in the

same context, would you have done the same and maybe you overreacted with him?

What did the mistake from your part?

It is about going deep and try to understand why people

are behaving in a certain way.

By being empathetic, you will be a better leader, greatly

enhancing your influence on people.

You will treat people fairly with time with your experience, dealing with people.

If you try hard, you can become better and better, which are empathy,

thus enhancing your potential.

As a great leader.

Remember a leader is about making people follow your lead because they want to.

So by being empathetic, it's kind of like you're making them become closer to you.

You're more connected to them.

And this is a necessary trait that you need to become a good leader.

People won't follow you if they don't feel connected with you.