Having good communication is generating in people the understanding that you

want them to have and the feeling and impact you want them to feel.

Achieving good communication is not a one-way street.

Conversely, it is more like a bumpy two-way street, with electronic

speed bumps and obstacles.

Such complexity exists because people, including ourselves, have different

perceptions about what they hear and see.

So when we talked to other people, whether in a one-to-one conversation

or a presentation, intention is what you expect people to understand

and feel about what you said.

Reality is what they really understood and felt about what you said, got it?

Again, intention is what you expect people to understand

and feel about what you said.

Reality is what they really understood and felt about you said.

We, in general, judge ourselves given our intentions.

However, other people judge us by the impact that we generate on them.

For example, imagine a man that loves his wife but sometimes

is not very gentle with her.

One time she told him, dear, can I have an ice cream over there?

And he answered, of course, yes.

Just go and get it.

And her reaction was like, okay, I don't think I want it anymore.

Let's just go home.

His intention was good.

He really wanted his wife to have the ice cream.

However, the way he communicated, especially considering his

gesture, caused her to be inhibited in getting the ice cream.

And many times, what comes after a scene like this is a fight because

of previous lousy communication.

It would have been totally different if he, if he had answered

something like, sure, honey, do you want me to go get it for you?

What flavor do you want?

I know that at this point, you might be pondering on many

situations that you have been too...

where your intent and the real impact did not really match.

I gave you an example from personal life, but the same

issue frequently happens at work.

So write it down.

Your intention doesn't matter.

What matters is your impact on other people.

We tend to judge ourselves and defend ourselves based on our intention.

However, our job is to understand how other people will receive our message

by understanding their perception.

Let me tell you a story.

I used to work with a manager and he had some communication issues.

For instance, during meeting, when someone suggested a solution different from his,

he would stare at the person seriously.

And he was like this.

And then what happened?

The team became inhibited to give new ideas, because it seemed

like he got really annoyed.

This impact was caused by the faces he made while others were

talking throughout the meeting.

However, I knew him.

He was a nice guy who enjoyed being challenged and criticized.

The problem is that when he was concentrated, he would frown

his eyebrow while listening.

And he would stare at the person because he was thinking about

what the person was speaking.

He was not trying to intimidate the person.

Thus, he did not intend to discourage the team from innovating.

However, the intention is not reality; and, it doesn't matter.

In another meeting, he interrupted and said something like, "So,

this is happening for two months, and I didn't know anything."

And everybody was like paralyzed and intimidated by the rest of

the meeting because they thought that he was complaining and

blaming them for the failure.

Still, given that he was not very involved in the project, his

intention was to assume the guilt; he was not trying to blame the team.

However, again, intention is not the reality.

To wrap up this lecture, my final message here is to, whenever communicating to a

person or group of people, and you don't get the impact that you have planned,

don't think: what is wrong with them?

What is wrong with these people?

Instead, ask yourself, "how can I improve my communication and

be more clear and impactful?".

Exercising this has to do with our past lectures: develop your empathy,

put yourself in your audience shoes.

Understand their background.

Doing this is the first step to figure out how to best communicate with them.

Sounds good?

Great!

So let's move to the next lecture.