Let's talk about the types of leaders and understand why you must not choose one.

Maybe you will notice that right now,

one of them will best suit you, but

at the end of the next lecture, I want you to understand why you

should not label yourself as one of the available types of leaders.

I don't know what your profile is...

So I would like to comment with you about each of the existing

profiles and give you a hint on how you should view each one of them.

Knowing these profiles will also help you to understand a little bit

more about the art of leadership.

The first

leader type that we're going

to discuss is the demanding one.

It is the person who observes all the details, not missing any slip.

Nothing goes unnoticed with this leader.

They understand that in order to work.

They have to cover

all the gaps, and there are

no spaces for mistakes.

They are very critical, observant, and perfectionist.

They believe that the only path to success is

excellence.

And the next

type of leader is the

autocratic.

The autocratic leader is

one who does not encourage effective participation in

projects.

They usually

make all the necessary decisions and often oppress the team members.

They see team members as

competitors, not as collaborators, partners.

They always conduct processes with a lot of energy, a lot of vigor.

But they don't value the skills, knowledge, and results

of the people that they lead.

So they end up creating a work environment in which professionals are overcharged.

So you have an environment of lots of demands and requests

but little recognition.

And this causes discomfort, in addition to limiting your team's

performance.

You just complain and demand.

You never recognize.

So this autocratic profile is much more for the boss than for the leader,

okay?

The next type of leader is the liberal.

The liberal leader is one who gives employees the freedom to

exercise their functions without much interference from the leader.

Employees themselves are responsible for managing the results of their work.

It is a way for the leader to show confidence in the capacity

of each of the team members.

However, you have to be careful with that.

Because sometimes if you're too relaxed, if you give them too much freedom, it

might happen that your team is going to start taking some attitudes of

immaturity because they're just, you know, too far away, disconnected from you.

On the

other hand, a liberal leader

gives freedom to good people to stand out.

So they end up discovering talents.

And the next type is the visionary leader.

I

really like this profile.

They have a great sense of opportunity and has latent optimism.

There that

enterprise guy who anticipate situations,

having the courage to take risks.

This type of leader recognizes the importance of the collaborators, of the

team, for the project to be successful.

They always seek to motivate the team to achieve good results.

So this is the visionary leader.

And

I confess that it

is the profile

that I like the most.

The next one is the democratic leader.

The democratic leader, as the name implies, is one that allows followers,

the team members, to participate in decisions more effectively.

They make important decisions in group.

They believe in ideas.

They accept criticism and suggestions because they believe that this is

important for the evolution of projects, the team, and the organization as a whole.

This opening of spaces for

dialogue, this effective communication, and the feedback that they

receive from the team, it brings a lot of growth and guarantee better results.

Now, the concern about the democratic leader is precisely not to lose control.

Because since they give a lot of

openness for all people to

participate, they suddenly can get into chaos, easily.

Because sometimes you need to give some balance to the team.

And then we have the "coach leader".

The "coach leader" is the one who can identify the capacities

of each one of the team members.

He's able to understand what each person's

capacity is, what each

person does best.

And uses this capacity to help maximize the results of the company's project.

They present challenges, motivating news.

They create a collaborative environment for entrepreneurs.

They care about each individual professional.

So coach leaders, they really follow

the coach's principles

of identifying what are the weaknesses and the strengths of each team member.

And they seek to explore the strengths and improve the

weaknesses to maximize the results.

They follow each

team member closely, motivating each one of

them.

So that they have confidence in their own work and by having good confidence,

they will reach excellent results.

Great!

At this point, you know about the different types of leaders.

In the next lecture, you will understand why you shouldn't

label yourself as one of them!

See you there!