And now that you know about the different profiles of leaders, I want to tell

you why you shouldn't choose a profile.

Don't label

yourself!

It's just because

none of these profiles is complete enough for you to choose to deal with

all types of contexts and people.

In fact, when you look at these profiles,

you might imagine situations

where it will be better to have a coach or a visionary leader.

That's why you should think about yourself as being like more flexible.

And being able to walk around all these profiles when needed.

You need to be charismatic, integral, correct.

You need to know how to listen, know how to speak at the right time, know

how to motivate people, to identify the weaknesses and strengths of each

of the team members individually.

You need to create a connection between them.

You need to be empathetic.

You need to give them guidelines for correcting their weaknesses

and maximizing their strengths.

Furthermore, a leader shares experiences.

It does not compete with the team members.

They don't see the team members as competitors, but

as colleagues, as partners.

These are the characteristics that the company wants for a leader.

Not necessarily a company wants a visionary or democratic leader.

They want someone that can maximize the chances of success.

And usually, you'll have to know a little bit of everything.

So sometimes, you need to be that leader

that earns the respect

of your

followers and helps them to resolve matters in an optimistic,

creative, motivated, energetic, confident way.

But sometimes, you need to act more like a boss.

If you have already been a leader, you understand what

I'm going to talk about here.

Sometimes you have to deal with people that they only care about receiving

the wages at the end of the month.

So, you know, it's not possible to motivate them.

So with these people often the effect of the leader, the

weapons of a good leader, do

not work.

Being empathetic,

trying to motivate them will not work because they are the problem.

So you really

need to command them, tell

them what to do and how to do otherwise.

They will just sit there the entire day and do nothing.

Because they really don't care.

Unfortunately, there are people who are very

difficult to accept guidance, to accept be inspired,

to trust their leaders.

They are very hard to get motivated.

So it's not easy to deal with them.

So in cases where you see that there's a lot of lack of commitment,

then you need to be a little boss.

You need to be

tougher, more incisive, talk less

and just make them work.

And you know, if nothing works...

well, sometimes you have to fire them.

So, what you need to understand is that you need to know, depending on

the situation, which profile suits the best, which one will be more effective.

So your goal is not about choosing a leadership style

but to making things work.

Getting work done in the most efficient way.

Therefore, you need to learn how to act like any one of

the profiles that we have just

discussed.

And the main tip

that I want you to understand is for you to reflect a little about the types of

profiles that we have just discussed here.

Listen, a little more about these

characteristics.

Review and analyze which

ones you have.

For

the good and the bad.

Are you more like an autocratic leader?

If so, perhaps you should look for more characteristics of

these other types of leadership.

And maybe decrease or eliminate some characteristics of the autocratic leader.

If you're more like a liberal leader, think a little bit.

Have you ever lost control of a project because of this?

Have you ever felt that for being distant, your team is not connected with you?

If this is the case, then maybe stop being so liberal, give some of your time

to your team so that you can understand them better, and create a connection.

So analyze all these profiles very well and try to understand where you are, where

are you standing right now, and try to identify where do you need to improve.

We will hardly be able to achieve perfection in all those profiles.

Of course not.

But you just need to keep trying to improve step by step.

Try to improve your empathy, motivation, communication

skills.

And the years are gonna go by and

based on your experience, you will see that you are going

to get better and better.

You will be inspiring.

You will be inspiring people.

In other words, you will be a better leader.