To develop as a leader...

in fact, to develop in your personal and professional life, a great tip that

I give you is: find your references!

So, what do I mean by references?

You need to learn how to be an observer.

So myself...

I met people who are excellent communicators.

Teachers, advisors, managers...

maybe you work with someone that is a great leader.

The way she speaks, her vision, her attitude, the look on her

eyes, the way people react to her.

If this is the case, use her as a reference.

If you're about to make a talk at a conference, go to

YouTube, watch a Ted Talk.

Observe the renowned speakers doing their job.

How do they start the talk?

How do they move around the stage?

What type of language do they use?

What do they do with their hands?

How do they interact with the audience?

So what is my final message here?

Do not miss the opportunity to observe.

If you want to be a good leader, then watch a good leader work.

How do they lead?

How do they address their team?

How do they give feedback to their team?

How do they motivate their team?

The best way for you to do this is by looking at your own

leader if you have a good one.

If you don't have a good leader, then you can observe

the leaders from other projects.

Unfortunately, in this case, you will not have direct access,

daily contact with a good leader.

But, you know, it's good to observe the bad leaders too.

Try to understand why do they have a disconnected team?

Why so many people who work for him go work elsewhere.

Why he doesn't have the capability of retaining attracting good people?

Maybe he's not empathetic.

Maybe it's because he never has time to talk to interact with the team.

So the team is always feeling disconnected from him.

And this, of course, has a direct impact on the team's performance and

their satisfaction with their job.

Generally, everybody works with good and bad leaders and, you know,

working with good people, you'll realize that they make mistakes.

Nobody's perfect.

So don't try just to copy them.

You need to analyze them.

You need to learn what they do well and what suits you so that

you can copy their best behavior and feed it into your personality.

As a result, you will learn a little bit here, a little bit there, a little

bit with each one of the good and the bad leaders that you interact with.

So they will be your reference.

On the next lecture, I will give you one more tip, about

how to improve as a leader!

See you there!