To wrap up this section, here goes my final tip:

find your mentors.

Mentors are those people who do something better than you and who can guide you.

For example, you can have a friend, a project manager, or

a software engineer that's more experienced or more knowledgeable

than you, so he can guide you.

You can talk periodically.

He can give you feedback.

Therefore he's being your mentor, your reference, and

he will help you to develop.

Mentors don't have to be older than you.

They just gotta be better at you in a given task, maybe communication,

programming, project management, organizing his personal finance, okay?

And also, please, don't forget to practice.

Practice everything that you have learned in this course.

And such further read about leadership.

Talk to experts.

Talk to your friends who are already leaders.

But practice, do not be afraid.

Leadership is something that you learn when you practice.

If you need to improve your communication, then as a great speaker says, when you

have the opportunity to speak, speak!

Be it at a birthday party, with all your friends, be it at a

small event with like five people or a big event with 500 people.

Don't miss an opportunity, have the ambition to go there and speak.

The same thing applies to all the other characteristics.

Always practice, and don't forget, always reflect on what you did

and try to improve continuously.

Whenever possible, ask the people around you for feedback because

it is very difficult for us to have a perfect view of ourselves.

We are always biased, especially when we're talking about our own defects.

If I ask you right now about your three main qualities, well, most of you are

going to be really fast to answer me.

But if I ask you about your three defects, that's going to be a little bit harder.

This is even a classic question in interviews.

Because it is much more difficult to see our defects...

So, you know what, just ask people for feedback and tell them to be honest.

For this purpose, you need to accept the feedback.

Don't be mad at them or upset if they tell you that you did something wrong.

See it as a learning opportunity and not as a failure.

Never, never underestimate the importance of listening to what

other people have to say about you.

Okay.

And with this, we wrap up this section.

Great job.