As you already know, the Kanban Method contains four fundamental principles

to promote the continuous improvement of the organization's processes.

Let's discuss them right now.

As I have told you previously, the Kanban Method, which was created in 2010 by

David Anderson, is highly flexible and widely used by organizations worldwide.

But how did it become so popular so quickly?

The answer is: because of its simplicity, which is described in its four principles!

Kanban’s goal is not to change the organization’s structure; it is not

to create new roles, responsibilities, new titles, and change processes.

No, none of that.

Kanban's idea is simply to visualize the workflow or processes you and

your team already follow today.

Then, by applying Kanban's tools and techniques, which we will cover later

in this course, you will be able to continuously improve your workflow.

This leads us to Kanban’s first fundamental principle:

start with what you do today.

Which is the flow you follow?

What are your process steps?

What tools do you use?

Adopting Kanban is not about making radical changes to your workflow.

In fact, at first, you shouldn't change anything!

Just map and optimize what you already do today.

In this course, you will learn how to map your workflow and

use Kanban to optimize it!

Such optimizations are key to applying Kanban's second principle:

agree to continuously improve.

Kanban is a lean approach, which means that it is about seeking the best

way to deliver products or services with as minimal waste as possible.

We achieve that by continuously improving, step-by-step.

With Kanban, we continuously keep an eye for bottlenecks and proceed with

small, but frequent improvements, to get better and better at satisfying

our customers, in a predictable manner.

Kanban's third principle is about respecting current the

organization’s processes, roles, responsibilities, and positions.

This principle reinforces the first, where the critical point is: Kanban

must be shaped to work for your organization; not the other way around!

So, to use Kanban, you just need what you already have today; you do not have to

train people to learn new skills or hire someone for a new role demanded by Kanban,

because it does not prescribe roles!

This characteristic makes it easier to be adopted because people are

less fearful of having to fulfill new job descriptions or getting fired.

Kanban's fourth principle is about encouraging leadership

behavior from everybody.

Here, we are talking about self-management, which includes having

people feel responsible for their work and results, and proactively seeking

to understand the whole value delivery chain; every step necessary for value

to be delivered to the customers.

In other words, people need to quit being task doers and collaborate

more, having a whole-team perspective.

In summary, these are the four fundamental principles of Kanban.

First, start with what you do today.

Second, agree to continuously improve.

Third, respect current processes, roles, responsibilities, and positions.

And fourth, encourage leadership behavior from everybody.

In the following lecture, let's discuss the six key Kanban practices.

See you there!
