It is time for you to learn the three types of delegation: Gofer

or Micromanagement, Dump & Run, and Stewardship Delegation.

Next, I will describe each one of them.

And as an exercise, try to figure out which one is our current style.

Let's start talking about gofer.

This type gets its name because you have the leader telling people to

go for task one, go for task two,

and so on...

Instead of giving people a big picture, a vision of the results to be achieved.

THe leader focuses on describing the exact step-by-step to

be followed and continuously checking if the person is done.

For instance, let's assume that I hired a video editor to edit my videos.

Here, I will tell the editor exactly what to do for each video, where to cut

the videos, which elements or effects to add when to add them, where to add

them, the exact position on the screen.

Which font to use, which colors to use.

I would tell her exactly what to do.

The editor would merely follow my instructions.

It is almost like programming a computer, telling it exactly what to do.

This type of delegation is the most annoying one because

it displays a lack of trust.

Further, people that are micromanaged tend to not care about the intended

objective but only on the task at hand.

This happens because they don't have a big picture, a vision

of the goals to be achieved.

They don't feel as they own the results.

Thus, they feel that as long as they're done with whatever was

told them to do, they're fine.

What if I mess up on the instruction for my video?

What if I tell the editor to add an element that doesn't

make any sense for the video?

What would the editor do?

If she feels micromanaged,

if she feels that she doesn't own the work, she's probably not motivated

enough to care about the results.

She would just follow my instructions, and whatever goes wrong, she's going

to say, Hey, it's not my fault.

I'm just doing what Mirko told me to do.

How do you think micromanaged people react to unexpected issues?

They don't react.

They feel like it's not their job to figure out what to do.

It is the leader's job to describe all the scenarios that might occur and

the associated step-by-step solutions.

Thus, gofer might work for very simple, repeatable tasks.

One example is a company that I used to work for when I was very young.

My job and the job of hundreds of others was to classify if the results for

Google searches were relevant or not.

So we had this huge, very detailed guideline that we needed to

follow exactly as described.

We had no idea how Google would use our results.

We just cared about finishing our daily tasks and getting paid.

The company would make sure to micro-manage every task.

Making sure that we were getting done fast enough and with enough quality.

Otherwise, we would get fired.

The company didn't expect us to be super motivated.

It just wanted us to get the tasks done.

One at a time.

We acted like task doers to complement Google's algorithm.

Apparently, the gofer approach works well for them.

Because the work was highly predictable and they had a bunch of people doing

the same tasks, so they could easily compare the performance of each worker.

However, notice that the gofer approach is not suited for most environments because

instead of taking the most of people, you reduce them to task doers, which

will make them get demotivated and get annoyed by your very presence as a leader.

Further, if you have many tasks dependent on each other, you, as

the leader, will have to control and synchronize everything.

Thus, it only works to the point where you have enough time

to control such dependencies.

I like to think of gofer delegation as a ventriloquist.

Because there's a very limited amount of tasks to be done that

you can control, and you take away from people their capabilities to

input and come up with solutions.

Have you ever been in this situation, micromanaged or micromanaging people?

How was your experience?

Think about these questions for a little bit, and then move to the

next lecture, where you will learn about the dump & run delegation.

See you there.