Finally, the balance.

The ideal one.

Stewardship leadership.

This type is based on three pillars.

Vision, restriction, and support.

You share the vision, the results to be achieved.

You enable them to feel part of the team and that they own the results.

However, you define the necessary restrictions, such as deadline, standards

to be followed, or reporting mechanisms.

Thus, you give them the freedom to define the procedure and methods, given that they

conform with the imposed restrictions.

Let them be aware of the decisions that they can make, what

degree of freedom do they have.

It is very important to make this clear.

Two things might happen.

If people are not aware of the degree of freedom, they have for making decisions.

First, they might be interrupting you frequently to ask stuff that

they could decide without your input, making you waste your time.

Second, they might make decisions that go against the expected standards or

templates, which might cause rework.

Because they'll have to fix it.

This will make you waste time, too.

But even worse, they will get annoyed because of the rework.

To avoid these issues, make sure that the task doers know all the task restrictions

so that they can make better decisions.

And, finally.

Give the people the necessary support.

Do they already know all needed to get the job done?

If yes, great!

Let them do their job.

If not, share with them the necessary know-how and then let them

define how to get the work done.

Despite the situation, make yourself available to help them figure out any

issues or impediments that might come up.

Let's see an example, for instance, for editing a video.

Instead of telling the editor exactly how to edit the video, I can start

by sharing with her three examples of videos that I think are awesome

and explain what makes them awesome.

Then, instead of telling her exactly where to cut the video or add

elements or effects, I could give her additional information, as most, as

she needs to understand the expected quality and style for the video.

A restriction could be that the screen can not be frozen without

movement for at most five seconds.

If this is the case for the original video, figure out the best solution, which

might be, add an effect, add an image, add objects or elements on the screen.

Is the editor's job to figure out what to do.

By doing this, I'm not telling her exactly what to do.

I'm just giving her constraints, restrictions on what is good

and engaging video for me.

However, it is up to her to figure out how to solve each possible issue.

I'm making her responsible for the vision but within agreed restrictions.

Finally, I make her accountable before her work by setting deadlines with her.

Instead of telling her to get it done on Monday, I ask her, when

can you get done with this desk?

Of course, we might end up negotiating a little bit, but I let her define when she

will be able to deliver the work whenever possible with the expected quality.

Further, I define all the reporting mechanisms to avoid having me

annoying her with: how is this task?

Are you done yet?

When are you going to be done?

For this purpose, I might ask her, for instance, to update a daily

spreadsheet or task management tool.

Or, you know, just send me a weekly report.

I usually have people to send me daily reports.

Not because I want to know exactly what they've been doing during the day, but

because I want to know if there are any problems or impediments for which they

need my intervention, they need my help.

This is one very important thing make yourself available to help

them time stuck is time wasted.

Great.

You now know about the three types of delegation.

Given this, how should you improve your work delegation skills?

This is a topic of our next lecture.

I'll see you there.