In this lecture, I want to introduce you to a simple and efficient technique:

the "Project Kick-off Meeting."!

However, before talking about it, let me explain you the problem.

A project is about the team.

It is about the team being effective and efficient to achieve the project's goals.

A problem faced by most companies is that the team, the people, lack enough

information about the project in hand.

What is its vision?

What are the goals?

This lack of context causes them to question themselves,

why am I doing this task?

At the end of the day, the only answer that they have is: I am doing

this because someone told me to.

And, well, this is not very encouraging.

As a result, you will have people that feel like they are task doers, instead

of intelectually capable human beings.

This situation causes them to get desmotivated, and this might directly

affect the project's results.

And, guess what?

the rate of failing projects is astonishing, mostly

due to leadership issues.

I am sure that you don't want to be on this position, that is why, I am going

to teach you a simple, but effective way of starting the project having

everybody with the correct mindset!

The solution is to hold a Kick-off meeting!This meeting is a powerful

weapon to gain your team's trust, give them a shared goal, and motivate the

involved people to work as a real team!

Each individual should leave the meeting, feeling as an essential

factor for the project's success and in line with the project's goals!

Pay attention!

Never forget this!

When working with a team, You are dealing with human beings!

Sometimes, we might think that because everyone's getting paid...

they will automatically be 100% motivated and give their best!

But, in practice, it isn't so simple!

People need special kind of motivation!

no matter how well they get paid.

They need to be challenged and to feel important.

They need to understand the why behind their activities!

The Kick-Off meeting!

has two main purposes.

First, to set expectations.

And, second, motivate the project team, boost its morale!

At this point, you understand the motivation for running kick off meetings,

but how to conduct an effective one?

The answer for this question is the topic of the next lecture!

See you there!