In this lecture, you will learn how to conduct a project kickoff meeting.

First, notice that there are two types: client and internal kickoff meetings.

A client kickoff meeting, as the name suggests, involves the

project's clients, if there are any.

Notice that some projects are internal and don't involve people

outside of the organization.

Internal kickoff meetings involve the project team and your organization's

internal stakeholders, which include people that can affect

or be affected by the project.

For internal projects, it's the only kickoff meeting to be held.

However, if your project has an external client or customer, you might want to have

an internal kickoff meeting before having the client one so that the project team

is aligned before meeting with the client.

Let's start talking about this one.

First, let me give you the greatest tip ever.

Don't use the project kickoff to lay off information.

You might be wondering, what do you mean, Mirko?

Do you know that feeling of being in a meeting and thinking, why am I here?

Why didn't they just send me an email with this information?

I have been there a lot.

If it's a one-way communication, share a document, send an email don't

waste people's time with a meeting.

This is a horrible way of starting a project.

The kickoff meeting should, whenever possible, be collaborative,

setting up your team for success.

To achieve this, you got to do some preparation.

First, share background project information with the participants.

With enough time ahead of the meeting, you can include here: their project goals,

timeline, scope, communication strategy, and the main risks so that everybody has

enough context for the project kickoff.

Second, if you're planning to have specific questions addressed to the

participants, send the questions to them before the meeting so that they

can plan the best answers properly.

Third, if you think that some questions will be raised, prepare the answers

and necessary supporting documents.

Maybe a couple of slides to answer them the best way possible during the meeting.

And finally, set up the meeting's agenda.

As a rule of thumb, I would say that to plan it to last at most one hour.

People usually get very bored after one hour in a meeting.

Also is schedule the meeting ahead of time to make sure everybody can plan properly.

And of course, plan the meeting.

The meeting must be conducted following a plan.

Failing to plan is planning to failure.

The kickoff meeting is expansive, and it's your opportunity to uplift your

team's morale early in the project.

Don't underestimate its importance.

Given this, let's talk about the agenda.

The structure depends on the project, but the most include the five why's:

who, what, where, when, why, and how.

Given this, I'm going to suggest that in the agenda here, but feel

free to adapt it to your context.

The first thing to consider is to set the stage.

Separate at most five minutes, to explain to everybody the

meeting's, goals and structure.

If you have worked with this project's client in the past, you can

start by letting the team know the client's style and work preferences,

which might include, for instance, reporting mechanisms and frequency.

Then, give the people the opportunity to introduce themselves,

focusing on their role and what they'll deliver in this project.

You can add here an icebreaker activity by asking them to, for instance,

tell a project or a story, or things that went wrong in past projects

and what they have learned from it.

Separate around 5 and 10 minutes for this part depending on the team size.

Later, it is time to bring the team and align the perception

of the project's goals.

This is about coming with the why behind the project.

What motivates the project?

Why is it important to the organization?

Here, for instance, you could facilitate a session for the

participants to come up with an elevator pitch or a vision statement.

And, it should last around 10 minutes.

Let's suppose that your company was hired for a project about training

25 novice software developers in artificial intelligence technologies.

The client's goal was to at the end of the process, hire as most people as possible.

The vision could be something like this.

For a given customer, this project solves a problem of recruiting software

developers with expertise in developing artificial intelligence-enabled systems.

For your organization, this project can be important because it opens the door

for other future training projects with this company and other tech companies.

At this point, everybody will be aligned, understanding why the project exists

and why it is vital to the organization.

And if it's the case for the client, the next step could be to define success.

Here, you could ask the participants to come up with

success indicators and targets.

For instance, for our example project, what is success?

Teaching all the planned content on time.

What level of expertise is expected for the students at the end of the project?

Notice that the idea here, again is to bring the team

into a common understanding.

Reserve around 10 and 15 minutes for this step.

Next, you could clarify the scope.

Reserve an additional 10 minutes.

For instance, you could give them a canvas divided between in scope and out

of scope and ask them to fill it up.

For our example, we could have within the project scope, preparing the content,

teaching the lectures, preparing and conducting learning evaluation activities,

mentoring or coaching the students, which artificial intelligence technologies

and tools should be covered, and so on.

Out of scope, could be recruiting students, because another organization

is responsible for this activity.

At the end of the process, you should be able to resolve any scope

conflicts, make it things crystal clear.

Then, you can clarify who is responsible for what if it is the case.

The main point here is to have the team to understand the importance of each people

and how their work affect each other.

Since your project here is for a training program, you could identify

who are the instructors for each topics, who's going to mentor or

coach the students, and so on.

The next point here is what's often missed on kickoff meetings.

But I think that is an essential one.

Ask people about how they feel about the project in general.

You could go with a simple thumbs up and thumbs down mechanism here.

If there are thumbs down, try to identify the issues and solve

them if they are easy to solve.

If someone comes up with a risk that no one thought about it yet,

and no one has a good answer.

You could schedule a follow-up meeting for this part of the meeting.

Five minutes should be enough.

Then, finally, close the meeting, ask if anyone has any questions, and answer them.

Also, make sure you leave a positive and engaging message to boost

your team morale and make them put their hearts into the project.

This is your job as a leader.

Further, if it is the case, set the team for the client kickoff meeting, make

sure that your organization looks good.

To wrap up this lecture, let me just make a quick comment about

the client kickoff meeting.

The main difference here is that, of course, the client will be there.

The overall goal is the same as the internal kickoff meeting,

which includes setting the tone, project vision, scope, and timeline.

However, you will focus more on introducing the client

to the team and vice-versa.

And agreeing with the client, how to effectively work together to

deliver the project successfully.

And this is it, great job!

Now that you know how to conduct a project kickoff meeting, you

are a more empowered leader.

Don't underestimate this technique because it can bring you wonders on your projects.

I will see you in the next lecture.