119.
Leading a project is always challenging because you're constantly dealing with

new situations and different things.

You might be deploying something new, constructing a new building,

or developing a different service.

After all, a project generates a unique result.

Leading and managing projects is incredibly dynamic.

Naturally, sometimes we are correct.

And in others, we commit mistakes.

This is normal.

You can't always hit the nail on the head.

However, notice that it's easier to avoid repeating mistakes

when working alone on a project.

You won't repeat a mistake because you learn your lesson.

But a project commonly means dealing with a team.

That means it is harder to avoid the errors being repeated.

You have a team of 10, 20, or even 50...

The more people we have, the higher are the chances of having

mistakes to be made and repeated.

The point is when someone messes up, what can you do as a leader to avoid

it being repeated in the project, by the same person, or by someone else?

What about organization-wise,

where we have multiple projects going on.

How to avoid mistakes being repeated?

The answer is lessons learned.

Lessons learned is a strategy that many mature companies use

to share the knowledge acquired on projects, to continuously

learn, and become more efficient.

Instead, focusing on individual learning is about focusing on learning on the

project and organizational level.

It is about analyzing what happened on a project...

Among other relevant questions, we ask what went well?

what didn't go well?

And what could have been better?

Also, it is about coming up with tips, recommendations,

and good practices to deal with technical or management problems.

To enable organizational learning, each project must produce

a lessons learned document.

Your job as a leader, as the project manager, is to guarantee that you

have useful and high-quality lessons learned registered for your project.

And we do this for every project.

Every lesson produced is then stored in the Lessons Learned Repository.

Future projects can then reuse the knowledge learned on past ones

to mitigate risks, define better strategies and be more efficient.

And, of course, they also produce new lessons, updating

the Lessons Learned Repository.

Consequently, we have a continuous learning cycle, where knowledge

is COLLECTED from past projects.

And then reused by current or future projects.

Notice that this process is based on physical or digital documents.

But we could have a similar process of knowledge-sharing, free of documents.

Instead of having the people from the projects to document what they have

learned, we could establish a culture that promotes knowledge sharing through

meetings, conferences, and presentations.

You could also have a hybrid knowledge-sharing strategy, including

both document-driven and culture-based.

In fact...

in general, I recommend using a hybrid strategy.

Because not all knowledge can be made explicit on documents.

Notice that, independent of how knowledge-sharing is operationalized,

there is one crucial ingredient for it to come to work...

leadership.

In the following lectures, you will learn more about Lessons Learned IN PRACTICE

and about your role as a LEADER to make it happen within your organization!

120.
If we are interested in learning lessons, we need to identify

lessons that have the potential to improve performance in the future.

Therefore, a lesson is a recommendation.

Such a recommendation is based on a positive or negative experience,

from which others can learn and improve their performance on

a specific task or objective.

For you to have a practical perspective of how lessons learned should be registered,

let's take a look at one of the most famous lessons learned system in the

world, Nasa Public Lessons Learned System.

Here is the URL: lis.nasa.gov On the left navigation bar, you can

see a list of lessons classified by NASA, centers, or topics.

Let's take a look at this topic.

Acquisition or procurement strategy and planning.

On the right side, we have a list of lessons for this topic.

For each lesson, we have a title or subject, a brief summary, which

they refer to as the abstract, the date that the lesson was registered,

the involved NASA organization, and the list of related topics.

This part is important because it eases the search process.

By classifying the topics, the organization has a common vocabulary.

For instance, right here.

By having the topic product assurance, this lesson will be easily recovered by

the search mechanism whenever someone searches for the term Product Assurance.

Let's take a look at this second lesson here.

Let's not try to understand the technical part because it might end

up being very specific and advanced, not within our scope here, so I'm just

going to click on this lessons title and check the information about it.

Here, we have the information for this lesson.

And let's go to the main point.

First, we have the driving event, describing the situation.

What happened?

This section has all the necessary information for anyone reading the

document to understand what happened.

Here, you could have images, videos, or whatever type of information that

the people registering your lesson, judge to be relevant for future people

that will consult this lesson learned.

By scrolling down, we see the lessons learned and recommendations.

Many people mess up here by not listing the recommendation.

A lesson learned without recommendation is not a lesson learned.

Is just a description of a historical event.

As a leader, make sure that your projects lesson learned are

real lessons that can be useful

to other people.

I find this part over here.

very interesting too.

Because it shows how the organization, how NASA has incorporated this

lesson into their procedures.

In this case, NASA has incorporated this lesson as part of one of its standards,

called the Flight Project Practices.

In fact, if we think about it, updating the document, updating the

standard, updating a procedure is what made the lesson really learn.

Before this, we only had identified the lesson, the lesson that was not

really learned by the organization, and this is really important.

This is so important that this is the reason for most

lessons learned systems die.

If a lesson requires change, you got to make it happen.

It is your job as a leader.

You might need to end up updating a procedure, a checklist, a standard, or

simply make the lessons learned easily searchable for your organization.

Got it?

Great, now that you know how to properly register the lessons

learned, in the next lecture, you're going to see how you must lead the

process of making your organization learn through lessons learned.

I'll see you there.

121.

Now it is time for you to learn how you can lead the adoption

of the lesson learned practice, boosting your organization

performance and making you get more recognized as an effective leader.

First of all, notice that run your lesson learned system is a group effort.

It is a collaborative effort.

You must have people engaged.

The upper management must be engaged.

The project team and other key stakeholders, such as

members from other projects.

Or your organization's quality manager.

But, be aware, if lessons learned is not part of your organization's

culture, some people will resist.

They will say that they don't have time for that.

However, don't worry.

This has to do with the old popular saying that you take longer to cut trees because

you don't have time to sharpen the saw.

And it is your job to use your leadership in negotiation skills,

to convince people, to try it out, you need to sell them the idea.

Collecting Lessons Learned is a people-oriented task.

In this course, we will simulate conducting a lessons learned meeting.

However, before getting to the details of how to lead this meeting, you might be

asking yourself: when should we run them?

There are two possible ways: reactive or scheduled.

Let's start talking about reactive.

As the name implies, reactive means reacting to something, which

usually is a failure, such as a health or safety incident, or

even significant project overruns.

Whenever these events happen, we stop and run the lessons learned meeting.

Reactive learning works really well to capture failures, but not for successes.

On the other hand, as the name implies, scheduled is about

scheduling these meetings.

You could do it after each significant task or project phase.

For instance, for a software project, you could do it after deploying

the software to the real users.

In this case, you could have a lessons learned meeting to

discuss the deployment process.

Another way of doing it would be to do it after the end of a project,

which is what most people do.

Or after a series of projects.

You could also do it for a period such as a year after the project ends.

This way, you could observe if the project results,

had the intended outcomes,

by evaluating real data.

Notice that you don't have to choose one of these strategies.

You could go for a mixed approach.

To select a strategy, consider two questions.

Do we have relevant stuff to discuss that could result in

lessons for the organization?

And are we going to remember the relevant to discuss that could result

in lessons for the organization?

The answers to these questions, answer the most important one:

Do we need to run this meeting right now?

Conducting such meetings too frequently might be disturbing.

Still, if you take too long to schedule them, you might lose relevant information.

Now that you know when we can conduct lessons learned meeting.

It is time let's simulate conducting one on the next lecture.

I'll see you there.

122.

It is time!

Let's simulate a lessons learned meeting.

Here, let's assume that during the past month, we finished three small and similar

projects project one, two, and three.

You, as the leader, must invite the project's team for

the lessons learned meeting.

If necessary, you can also invite people that work on other similar

projects or maybe the quality manager or any other stakeholder that could

contribute or get value from the meeting.

Before simulating the meeting itself, let me explain to you the

process of how you should lead the identification of lessons learned.

Because you can't do it in an ad hoc manner.

You've got to plan.

You've got to structure the meeting.

Otherwise, you are doomed to failure.

Let's think about the process of coming up with the lessons learned as a tree.

You have the trunk, the branches, and the fruits.

The trunk is the purpose of the meeting.

It can be a project, a specific task, or a specific type of problem.

In our simulating meeting here, it will be projects one, two, and three.

Next, you come up with the branches, the aspects to be explored, which

can bring you to the lessons.

Here, you can ask "what" questions to the participants, such as What worked well?

What were the success factors?

What were the key issues faced?

What did not work well?

What were the main challenges, mistakes, or pitfalls?

If you could restart the project, what would you do differently?

Then, you need to understand the "why's" and the "how's."

Why were you successful?

What did you do to ensure success?

Why are you saying this?

What was missing that caused the issue to happen?

How did you achieve that?

And there are many cause-effect techniques that you can use here,

such as the "five why's" or the "Ishikawa or fishbone diagram."

As you're getting into the root cause, you will approach a learning point.

Then, you move to the next step.

You come up with the fruits.

The lessons learned.

Here is when you must come up with recommendations by asking the

participants questions such as:

What would be your advice for someone doing this in the future?

If you face this issue again, what are you going to do?

You go deep for each branch and get the fruit.

And then, after you are done, move to the next branch.

Also, make sure that whenever you're documenting the lesson, tell the

story, give the reader context.

As we saw in NASA's example.

Put all the relevant information for other people to understand the context,

including images and videos, if necessary.

Okay.

Now that you know the principles of how to extract lessons learned from

your team, you are ready to move on.

Therefore, let's see how to conduct the lessons learned meeting.

The first thing to do is to give a brief overview of each project to be discussed.

I'm not going to get into details here.

Let's just imagine a project.

You should start by presenting its: summary, objective, a short

description, and its complexity level.

So that everyone is aligned.

Remember the tree analogy.

You described the projects as a means to give people enough knowledge to

discuss the meetings purpose: the trunk.

Then, you must facilitate the process of coming up with the branches and

fruits as previously discussed.

Let's see two examples.

I'm going to show you one example from the architecture field and

other one from software development.

But don't worry.

Independent of your field, I am sure that you will be able to get the idea here

and transfer the concepts to your field.

Be it marketing sales or whatever.

As a template for lessons learned, let's use this one containing five fields.

First, the situation.

Which was a scenario?

Where did the mistake happen?

Or what was correctly done.

Then, which was the action taken?

What was the observed result after performing the given action?

What was the lesson learned?

And finally, the recommendation.

Okay?

So let's work with our first example.

First, consider that we were discussing about a project for the

construction of a couple's house.

Let's assume here that after discussing about project issues, we came up with

one that caused us to waste money.

This is the situation.

The husband directly contacted one of our architects and requested the

house's kitchen to be redesigned following the American style.

Which action was taken?

The kitchen's project was redesigned.

By whom?

The architect who received the call from the husband.

He simply went there and redesigned it.

And what happened in the next meeting with the couple, in

which the wife was also present?

She didn't like the American-style kitchen and requested to change the

project to the way it was before.

What a waste of time and effort, right?

What's the problem here?

Here, we have two stakeholders, the wife, and the husband.

The husband called us requesting a change.

What is the correct thing to do?

We can't merely change the project, although he asked for it.

We can't assume that he talked with his wife and came to an agreement.

The lesson learned is: stakeholders might have conflicting interests.

And what's the safest option?

Directly contact the other stakeholders.

In this case, the wife.

She's a key stakeholder.

My team needs to understand that stakeholders do not always talk

to each other before deciding to make a change request.

Thus the recommendation was before accepting change requests, first

talk to all the stakeholders.

This action avoids rework.

Notice that, during the meeting, it's not about blaming whoever accepted the change.

It is about discussing the cause of the issue and how to avoid it in the future.

Time spent blaming people is time wasted and relationships destroyed.

Stay away from this.

Notice that this issue is very common in architecture and other types of projects.

Thus, it is part of the meeting to define how to disseminate this

lesson to the entire organization.

Remember, just registering lessons learned means nothing.

As a leader,

it is your job to make the knowledge spread throughout your organization.

A possible action could be to add this recommendation as part of your

organization's change management procedure or to provide training.

Another option would be to create a system like NASA did.

Which will ease the process for people to search the lessons learned repository.

But, of course, you need to encourage project managers.

You need to encourage people to consume this data.

Otherwise, it's waste.

Let's see another example.

After starting a project of building a blog, the client

called a team member requesting to change it by adding a new feature.

It looked like this new feature could be quickly developed in a few hours.

Thus, which action did my team execute?

Immediately, my team member accepted the request and added

the functionality to the blog.

What happened?

It took her more days than she imagined!

And which was the result?

Not only there was a significant delay to deliver the project, but the company

also had to assume the additional costs of developing and maintaining

this new functionality for free.

Lesson learned: a change request might have a significant business impact.

Thus, the recommendation was: any requests the client makes to a team

member must be notified to management.

It is the management call to accept or not the change request, by evaluating

its potential impact and risks.

If you work in the IT industry, you might be very familiarized with this issue.

It happens a lot!

And you gotta be careful,

especially if you work with a contract with fixed price,

and deadline.

To wrap up this lecture,

remember that you always got to leave the lessons learned meeting with

actionable results: recommendations.

Which must be easily accessible, such as on a lessons learned

system or by updating the company's guideline procedures or instructions.

Further, accountability must be distributed.

For instance, if a new change request procedure is to be

developed, who is accountable for it?

As a leader, you must define accountabilities and manage them.

Otherwise, your company will keep with the "business as usual" mindset, making

the same mistakes over and over again.

Finally, it is always nice to, at the end of the meeting, ask the participants

for feedback and always try to innovate and have better lessons learned meeting.

Great.

Now let's move to the next lecture, where you will learn practical tips that will

help you to avoid common mistakes when adopting the lessons learned practice.

I'll see you there.

123.
There are two common mistakes when we conduct a lessons learned meeting.

The first one is using the meeting to play the blame game.

If you let the people that made the mistakes be exposed,

they will get very upset.

Their reaction will not be good.

They might even leave the company, and guess what?

If this happens, it is your fault as a leader.

You failed.

The meeting is about learning and continuous improvement, not about pointing

fingers and making people embarrassed.

Define the rules.

As soon as the meeting starts, no pointing fingers.

Don't mention names.

Time spent blaming people is time wasted.

We could use that time for more available and productive things.

Forget a moment who committed the mistake here.

The objective is to grow together, admitting the mistakes as a team.

Instead of saying Jonah accepted the request without talking with

the other stakeholders, you must say WE accepted the request.

Notice the difference?

The idea is not to expose a mistake.

We don't want people to get embarrassed.

The exception is when we discuss good things, good initiatives,

and innovative solutions.

In these positive situations, you must mention names.

Make them proud of themselves.

Let them get the credit that they deserve.

For instance, you could say something like: "team

the results were extraordinary!

When we sent the report that Laura developed, the client got delighted.

LAURA, congratulations on your idea.

It was excellent.

In the next projects, we will make that a standard."

Praise in public.

Criticize in private.

This is a basic leadership rule of thumb.

The next mistake is having meetings that take too long.

This meeting should take 60 minutes at most.

It can take even less, depending on the project's size, and

the number of lessons learned.

If you feel that you have too much stuff to be discussed,

schedule separate meetings!

For Instance...

have one to talk about Quality.

Another one about the Project Scope...

and so on.

You must have focused discussions.

This was Great.

Let's wrap up, with a final instruction of how you, as a leader, should work with

Lessons Learned in your Organization.

See you there!

124.
Let's wrap up talking about lessons learned.

And let's start by recapping the context of lessons learned.

When should you use it?

Usually, it will be useful for you whenever you're starting a project.

Whenever working on a project, the first thing you should do

after you have the project scope defined is to look at the lessons

learned from past similar projects.

By doing this, you avoid repeating their mistakes, and

you replicate the good ideas.

What if your organization hasn't adopted lessons learned yet?

Talk to people, try to figure out the past similar projects, and connect

with the people involved in them.

Ask them about the risks and their recommendations.

Further, seize the opportunity to lead the initiative of adopting lessons learned.

Start with your projects, and then encourage and

support others to do as well.

I am sure that your efforts will bring your organization great results and

will make you a more recognized leader.

125.
***YOUR SPECIAL BONUS***
Congratulations on completing the course!



Only a few online learners are able to complete courses, so this shows how willing you are to keep learning and growing. Great job!



YOUR SPECIAL BONUS



Check out my other courses with a special discount:



Complete Agile Scrum Master Certification Training

https://www.udemy.com/course/complete-professional-scrum-master-training-exam-simulator/?referralCode=52010BEAADDC267F2FB9
