Leading a project is always challenging because you're constantly dealing with

new situations and different things.

You might be deploying something new, constructing a new building,

or developing a different service.

After all, a project generates a unique result.

Leading and managing projects is incredibly dynamic.

Naturally, sometimes we are correct.

And in others, we commit mistakes.

This is normal.

You can't always hit the nail on the head.

However, notice that it's easier to avoid repeating mistakes

when working alone on a project.

You won't repeat a mistake because you learn your lesson.

But a project commonly means dealing with a team.

That means it is harder to avoid the errors being repeated.

You have a team of 10, 20, or even 50...

The more people we have, the higher are the chances of having

mistakes to be made and repeated.

The point is when someone messes up, what can you do as a leader to avoid

it being repeated in the project, by the same person, or by someone else?

What about organization-wise,

where we have multiple projects going on.

How to avoid mistakes being repeated?

The answer is lessons learned.

Lessons learned is a strategy that many mature companies use

to share the knowledge acquired on projects, to continuously

learn, and become more efficient.

Instead, focusing on individual learning is about focusing on learning on the

project and organizational level.

It is about analyzing what happened on a project...

Among other relevant questions, we ask what went well?

what didn't go well?

And what could have been better?

Also, it is about coming up with tips, recommendations,

and good practices to deal with technical or management problems.

To enable organizational learning, each project must produce

a lessons learned document.

Your job as a leader, as the project manager, is to guarantee that you

have useful and high-quality lessons learned registered for your project.

And we do this for every project.

Every lesson produced is then stored in the Lessons Learned Repository.

Future projects can then reuse the knowledge learned on past ones

to mitigate risks, define better strategies and be more efficient.

And, of course, they also produce new lessons, updating

the Lessons Learned Repository.

Consequently, we have a continuous learning cycle, where knowledge

is COLLECTED from past projects.

And then reused by current or future projects.

Notice that this process is based on physical or digital documents.

But we could have a similar process of knowledge-sharing, free of documents.

Instead of having the people from the projects to document what they have

learned, we could establish a culture that promotes knowledge sharing through

meetings, conferences, and presentations.

You could also have a hybrid knowledge-sharing strategy, including

both document-driven and culture-based.

In fact...

in general, I recommend using a hybrid strategy.

Because not all knowledge can be made explicit on documents.

Notice that, independent of how knowledge-sharing is operationalized,

there is one crucial ingredient for it to come to work...

leadership.

In the following lectures, you will learn more about Lessons Learned IN PRACTICE

and about your role as a LEADER to make it happen within your organization!