In the last lecture, we covered the four Kanban principles.

Now, it is time to cover the six Kanban key practices.

You will notice that they are straightforward because everything

in Kanban is effortless given that the goal is to enter smoothly

into the organization, promoting visibility, control, and continuous

improvement to its existing workflows.

Kanban's first key practice preaches the importance of visualizing

the workflow, which, in practice, means using a Kanban Board.

For example, this is the Kanban Board we created in previous lectures for managing

the production of articles for our agency.

Notice that using the Kanban Board is a friendly and organized way

to visualize the workflow, but these are not its main benefits.

The Kanban Board is essential because it help us to analyze the

workflow in identified bottlenecks, as we discussed in past lectures.

It makes the workflow explicit for everybody and everything: who is doing

what and the status of each work item.

Thus, in Kanban, we manage work visually and collaboratively.

By the way, the Kanban Board is so valuable that, nowadays, it is used

by pretty much every project and task management approach, traditional or agile.

Okay.

Let us talk about Kanban key practice number two: limiting the Work In

Progress to each step of the workflow,

as we have already discussed in past lectures.

This practice is critical for eliminating queues in the workflow.

It is what makes us avoid getting out of control by starting more

work than we can get done, remember?

Thus, it helps us to avoid waste.

For this reason, limiting Work In Progress is a central piece in Kanban.

We may say that if this practice was a person, it certainly would be the

person that Kanban’s motto, which is “Stop starting and start finishing.”

Kanban key practice number three is about managing the workflow.

Kanban’s main goal is to continuously deliver value to customers,

with minimal queues or waste.

And, what do you need in place for achieving this?

An efficient workflow: a workflow that produces as much as possible, but in

a cadenced way, not wasting resources.

As we have discussed, the Kanban board supports managing the workflow because

it makes it easy to identify bottlenecks.

One example is having work items taking too long to get done at a particular step.

For instance, let us assume here that, on average, an article takes

4 hours to be written and that

the article “The Secret to Teamwork” has already taken 8 hours and is not done yet.

This might indicate that there's something wrong.

For example, maybe the person allocated for writing this article

has no experience with the topic and is having a really hard time.

Given this, an example of corrective action would be having

the teamwork expert, if available, work in pairs with the writer.

Throughout this course, you will learn the best techniques and tools

to manage workflow, and how Kanban Board makes this task easier.

Now, let us talk about Kanban key practice number four: have

the process policies explicit.

For example, we could have a policy about how to deal with urgent items, such as

a critical bug found on your website.

We will talk about how to deal with urgent items later in this course, but

let us fast forward just a little bit.

The policy on how to deal with an urgent item could say that it should

be represented by a red card, instead of a yellow card, on our Kanban Board.

The key point here is that Kanban does not define the rules and policies, but

it does say that you must define them and make them explicit and public.

In other words, the whole team must be aware of them so that

everyone can understand and be aligned about how they must work.

Kanban’s key practice number five is about implementing feedback loops.

Kanban is about learning.

Whoever implements Kanban ends up learning how to be more efficient.

Given this, we need feedback loops, in other words, we need to, at

some point, stop, inspect, adapt if needed, do it, stop again, and so on.

But, how long are the feedback loops?

One day?

One week?

One month?

Kanban has no rules about this.

It is up to the organization that adopts Kanban to define what works best.

An example of feedback loop is holding short daily meetings to discuss the

workflow in light of short-term goals.

Now, let us discussed about the last Kanban key practice:

improve collaboratively, and evolve experimentally.

In other words, it is about the team, learning as a whole; having a shared

understanding of the problems, coming up with solutions, try them out, observing

the results, and deciding what to do next.

These six practices, along with the four principles discussed in the

last lecture, are the basis for a successful application of Kanban.

Don't worry if you didn't absorb everything that we

have discussed up to now.

We'll discuss these points again naturally later in this course,

while we put Kanban into practice.

Now, take some time to answer this section's quiz, and I'll see you in

the next section, where we will use a professional tool and build and

discuss a Kanban board in detail.

See you there!
