If we are interested in learning lessons, we need to identify

lessons that have the potential to improve performance in the future.

Therefore, a lesson is a recommendation.

Such a recommendation is based on a positive or negative experience,

from which others can learn and improve their performance on

a specific task or objective.

For you to have a practical perspective of how lessons learned should be registered,

let's take a look at one of the most famous lessons learned system in the

world, Nasa Public Lessons Learned System.

Here is the URL: lis.nasa.gov On the left navigation bar, you can

see a list of lessons classified by NASA, centers, or topics.

Let's take a look at this topic.

Acquisition or procurement strategy and planning.

On the right side, we have a list of lessons for this topic.

For each lesson, we have a title or subject, a brief summary, which

they refer to as the abstract, the date that the lesson was registered,

the involved NASA organization, and the list of related topics.

This part is important because it eases the search process.

By classifying the topics, the organization has a common vocabulary.

For instance, right here.

By having the topic product assurance, this lesson will be easily recovered by

the search mechanism whenever someone searches for the term Product Assurance.

Let's take a look at this second lesson here.

Let's not try to understand the technical part because it might end

up being very specific and advanced, not within our scope here, so I'm just

going to click on this lessons title and check the information about it.

Here, we have the information for this lesson.

And let's go to the main point.

First, we have the driving event, describing the situation.

What happened?

This section has all the necessary information for anyone reading the

document to understand what happened.

Here, you could have images, videos, or whatever type of information that

the people registering your lesson, judge to be relevant for future people

that will consult this lesson learned.

By scrolling down, we see the lessons learned and recommendations.

Many people mess up here by not listing the recommendation.

A lesson learned without recommendation is not a lesson learned.

Is just a description of a historical event.

As a leader, make sure that your projects lesson learned are

real lessons that can be useful

to other people.

I find this part over here.

very interesting too.

Because it shows how the organization, how NASA has incorporated this

lesson into their procedures.

In this case, NASA has incorporated this lesson as part of one of its standards,

called the Flight Project Practices.

In fact, if we think about it, updating the document, updating the

standard, updating a procedure is what made the lesson really learn.

Before this, we only had identified the lesson, the lesson that was not

really learned by the organization, and this is really important.

This is so important that this is the reason for most

lessons learned systems die.

If a lesson requires change, you got to make it happen.

It is your job as a leader.

You might need to end up updating a procedure, a checklist, a standard, or

simply make the lessons learned easily searchable for your organization.

Got it?

Great, now that you know how to properly register the lessons

learned, in the next lecture, you're going to see how you must lead the

process of making your organization learn through lessons learned.

I'll see you there.