Now it is time for you to learn how you can lead the adoption

of the lesson learned practice, boosting your organization

performance and making you get more recognized as an effective leader.

First of all, notice that run your lesson learned system is a group effort.

It is a collaborative effort.

You must have people engaged.

The upper management must be engaged.

The project team and other key stakeholders, such as

members from other projects.

Or your organization's quality manager.

But, be aware, if lessons learned is not part of your organization's

culture, some people will resist.

They will say that they don't have time for that.

However, don't worry.

This has to do with the old popular saying that you take longer to cut trees because

you don't have time to sharpen the saw.

And it is your job to use your leadership in negotiation skills,

to convince people, to try it out, you need to sell them the idea.

Collecting Lessons Learned is a people-oriented task.

In this course, we will simulate conducting a lessons learned meeting.

However, before getting to the details of how to lead this meeting, you might be

asking yourself: when should we run them?

There are two possible ways: reactive or scheduled.

Let's start talking about reactive.

As the name implies, reactive means reacting to something, which

usually is a failure, such as a health or safety incident, or

even significant project overruns.

Whenever these events happen, we stop and run the lessons learned meeting.

Reactive learning works really well to capture failures, but not for successes.

On the other hand, as the name implies, scheduled is about

scheduling these meetings.

You could do it after each significant task or project phase.

For instance, for a software project, you could do it after deploying

the software to the real users.

In this case, you could have a lessons learned meeting to

discuss the deployment process.

Another way of doing it would be to do it after the end of a project,

which is what most people do.

Or after a series of projects.

You could also do it for a period such as a year after the project ends.

This way, you could observe if the project results,

had the intended outcomes,

by evaluating real data.

Notice that you don't have to choose one of these strategies.

You could go for a mixed approach.

To select a strategy, consider two questions.

Do we have relevant stuff to discuss that could result in

lessons for the organization?

And are we going to remember the relevant to discuss that could result

in lessons for the organization?

The answers to these questions, answer the most important one:

Do we need to run this meeting right now?

Conducting such meetings too frequently might be disturbing.

Still, if you take too long to schedule them, you might lose relevant information.

Now that you know when we can conduct lessons learned meeting.

It is time let's simulate conducting one on the next lecture.

I'll see you there.