It is time!

Let's simulate a lessons learned meeting.

Here, let's assume that during the past month, we finished three small and similar

projects project one, two, and three.

You, as the leader, must invite the project's team for

the lessons learned meeting.

If necessary, you can also invite people that work on other similar

projects or maybe the quality manager or any other stakeholder that could

contribute or get value from the meeting.

Before simulating the meeting itself, let me explain to you the

process of how you should lead the identification of lessons learned.

Because you can't do it in an ad hoc manner.

You've got to plan.

You've got to structure the meeting.

Otherwise, you are doomed to failure.

Let's think about the process of coming up with the lessons learned as a tree.

You have the trunk, the branches, and the fruits.

The trunk is the purpose of the meeting.

It can be a project, a specific task, or a specific type of problem.

In our simulating meeting here, it will be projects one, two, and three.

Next, you come up with the branches, the aspects to be explored, which

can bring you to the lessons.

Here, you can ask "what" questions to the participants, such as What worked well?

What were the success factors?

What were the key issues faced?

What did not work well?

What were the main challenges, mistakes, or pitfalls?

If you could restart the project, what would you do differently?

Then, you need to understand the "why's" and the "how's."

Why were you successful?

What did you do to ensure success?

Why are you saying this?

What was missing that caused the issue to happen?

How did you achieve that?

And there are many cause-effect techniques that you can use here,

such as the "five why's" or the "Ishikawa or fishbone diagram."

As you're getting into the root cause, you will approach a learning point.

Then, you move to the next step.

You come up with the fruits.

The lessons learned.

Here is when you must come up with recommendations by asking the

participants questions such as:

What would be your advice for someone doing this in the future?

If you face this issue again, what are you going to do?

You go deep for each branch and get the fruit.

And then, after you are done, move to the next branch.

Also, make sure that whenever you're documenting the lesson, tell the

story, give the reader context.

As we saw in NASA's example.

Put all the relevant information for other people to understand the context,

including images and videos, if necessary.

Okay.

Now that you know the principles of how to extract lessons learned from

your team, you are ready to move on.

Therefore, let's see how to conduct the lessons learned meeting.

The first thing to do is to give a brief overview of each project to be discussed.

I'm not going to get into details here.

Let's just imagine a project.

You should start by presenting its: summary, objective, a short

description, and its complexity level.

So that everyone is aligned.

Remember the tree analogy.

You described the projects as a means to give people enough knowledge to

discuss the meetings purpose: the trunk.

Then, you must facilitate the process of coming up with the branches and

fruits as previously discussed.

Let's see two examples.

I'm going to show you one example from the architecture field and

other one from software development.

But don't worry.

Independent of your field, I am sure that you will be able to get the idea here

and transfer the concepts to your field.

Be it marketing sales or whatever.

As a template for lessons learned, let's use this one containing five fields.

First, the situation.

Which was a scenario?

Where did the mistake happen?

Or what was correctly done.

Then, which was the action taken?

What was the observed result after performing the given action?

What was the lesson learned?

And finally, the recommendation.

Okay?

So let's work with our first example.

First, consider that we were discussing about a project for the

construction of a couple's house.

Let's assume here that after discussing about project issues, we came up with

one that caused us to waste money.

This is the situation.

The husband directly contacted one of our architects and requested the

house's kitchen to be redesigned following the American style.

Which action was taken?

The kitchen's project was redesigned.

By whom?

The architect who received the call from the husband.

He simply went there and redesigned it.

And what happened in the next meeting with the couple, in

which the wife was also present?

She didn't like the American-style kitchen and requested to change the

project to the way it was before.

What a waste of time and effort, right?

What's the problem here?

Here, we have two stakeholders, the wife, and the husband.

The husband called us requesting a change.

What is the correct thing to do?

We can't merely change the project, although he asked for it.

We can't assume that he talked with his wife and came to an agreement.

The lesson learned is: stakeholders might have conflicting interests.

And what's the safest option?

Directly contact the other stakeholders.

In this case, the wife.

She's a key stakeholder.

My team needs to understand that stakeholders do not always talk

to each other before deciding to make a change request.

Thus the recommendation was before accepting change requests, first

talk to all the stakeholders.

This action avoids rework.

Notice that, during the meeting, it's not about blaming whoever accepted the change.

It is about discussing the cause of the issue and how to avoid it in the future.

Time spent blaming people is time wasted and relationships destroyed.

Stay away from this.

Notice that this issue is very common in architecture and other types of projects.

Thus, it is part of the meeting to define how to disseminate this

lesson to the entire organization.

Remember, just registering lessons learned means nothing.

As a leader,

it is your job to make the knowledge spread throughout your organization.

A possible action could be to add this recommendation as part of your

organization's change management procedure or to provide training.

Another option would be to create a system like NASA did.

Which will ease the process for people to search the lessons learned repository.

But, of course, you need to encourage project managers.

You need to encourage people to consume this data.

Otherwise, it's waste.

Let's see another example.

After starting a project of building a blog, the client

called a team member requesting to change it by adding a new feature.

It looked like this new feature could be quickly developed in a few hours.

Thus, which action did my team execute?

Immediately, my team member accepted the request and added

the functionality to the blog.

What happened?

It took her more days than she imagined!

And which was the result?

Not only there was a significant delay to deliver the project, but the company

also had to assume the additional costs of developing and maintaining

this new functionality for free.

Lesson learned: a change request might have a significant business impact.

Thus, the recommendation was: any requests the client makes to a team

member must be notified to management.

It is the management call to accept or not the change request, by evaluating

its potential impact and risks.

If you work in the IT industry, you might be very familiarized with this issue.

It happens a lot!

And you gotta be careful,

especially if you work with a contract with fixed price,

and deadline.

To wrap up this lecture,

remember that you always got to leave the lessons learned meeting with

actionable results: recommendations.

Which must be easily accessible, such as on a lessons learned

system or by updating the company's guideline procedures or instructions.

Further, accountability must be distributed.

For instance, if a new change request procedure is to be

developed, who is accountable for it?

As a leader, you must define accountabilities and manage them.

Otherwise, your company will keep with the "business as usual" mindset, making

the same mistakes over and over again.

Finally, it is always nice to, at the end of the meeting, ask the participants

for feedback and always try to innovate and have better lessons learned meeting.

Great.

Now let's move to the next lecture, where you will learn practical tips that will

help you to avoid common mistakes when adopting the lessons learned practice.

I'll see you there.