There are two common mistakes when we conduct a lessons learned meeting.

The first one is using the meeting to play the blame game.

If you let the people that made the mistakes be exposed,

they will get very upset.

Their reaction will not be good.

They might even leave the company, and guess what?

If this happens, it is your fault as a leader.

You failed.

The meeting is about learning and continuous improvement, not about pointing

fingers and making people embarrassed.

Define the rules.

As soon as the meeting starts, no pointing fingers.

Don't mention names.

Time spent blaming people is time wasted.

We could use that time for more available and productive things.

Forget a moment who committed the mistake here.

The objective is to grow together, admitting the mistakes as a team.

Instead of saying Jonah accepted the request without talking with

the other stakeholders, you must say WE accepted the request.

Notice the difference?

The idea is not to expose a mistake.

We don't want people to get embarrassed.

The exception is when we discuss good things, good initiatives,

and innovative solutions.

In these positive situations, you must mention names.

Make them proud of themselves.

Let them get the credit that they deserve.

For instance, you could say something like: "team

the results were extraordinary!

When we sent the report that Laura developed, the client got delighted.

LAURA, congratulations on your idea.

It was excellent.

In the next projects, we will make that a standard."

Praise in public.

Criticize in private.

This is a basic leadership rule of thumb.

The next mistake is having meetings that take too long.

This meeting should take 60 minutes at most.

It can take even less, depending on the project's size, and

the number of lessons learned.

If you feel that you have too much stuff to be discussed,

schedule separate meetings!

For Instance...

have one to talk about Quality.

Another one about the Project Scope...

and so on.

You must have focused discussions.

This was Great.

Let's wrap up, with a final instruction of how you, as a leader, should work with

Lessons Learned in your Organization.

See you there!