Now that you know Kanban fundamentals, let us get deeper into it by putting,

combining into practice by creating a professional Kanban board from scratch.

As previously discussed, Kanban was initially conceived using physical

metal boards and paper cards.

Later, Kanban started to be adopted with standard whiteboards

or paper boards and paper cards.

Still, now we are in the Internet age, and we have several great online systems

that can be used for adopting Kanban.

However, some still use whiteboards with paper cards as a Kanban board.

Usually, they do it for two reasons: first, because it is a cheaper solution.

It is incredibly affordable to buy a whiteboard just once and then replace

paper cards whenever necessary.

And second, it is a cheap and quick way of adopting Kanban without needing to ask the

organization for permission or resources to subscribe to an online system.

Despite this, the fact is that using an online system specialized

in Kanban is more effective in all senses because you have real-time

information, from any device, with customized views, reports, and metrics.

Using such a tool also enables remote work because it can be accessed anywhere.

By the way, this chart is called the Cumulative Flow Diagram and

is part of the Kanban method.

We will talk more about it later in this course.

Since the first section, I have already used KanbanTool, a complete

and easy-to-use online system.

It has a free version, meaning you can follow along with me in this

course by using KanbanTool for free.

However, if you prefer another system, please, feel free to do so.

This course is not about KanbanTool, but the Kanban Method, and you

will be able to follow this course independently of the tool you choose.

In the following few lectures, I will go over fundamental tasks with KanbanTool,

including how to create an account, your first board, tasks, and workflows.

You can follow along with the next lectures with me by replicating

my actions on your computer.

Let's keep going because we are just getting started, and we

can only learn by practicing.

See you in the following lecture!
