Let's start by creating an account on KanbanTool and setting up our board.

First, open your favorite Internet browser and access this

address, www.kanbantool.com, to reach their website.

Now, we need to create an account.

Click on “Pricing & Sign up.”

Here you will see their pricing options.

Let’s create a FREE account.

Enter your name.

I will put here “Mirko Perkusich.”

Now, add an email address, I will add mirkokanban@hotmail.com.

Add an “account name.” I will put “mirkokanban.” Notice that, as

shown here, KanbanTool uses your account name to create an URL

for accessing your Kanban boards.

Check that you agree with their terms.

And finally, click on “Create My Account.”

Now, let us complete the login details.

Define a password and confirm it.

The time zone for me is Brasilia.

If you want, you can inform them that you learned about

their tool through this course.

I will add here “Mirko’s Kanban course on Udemy”.

Great.

Finally, click on "save" and continue.

At this point, you can invite other people to be part of your team.

I will not invite anyone because I just want to make a quick tour.

So, I will click here on “Continue,” and we are done.

Now, I am already in my account here in KanbanTool.

If you want to take a tour or get information from the system, just

click here on “Start with the welcome board”, and KanbanTool

will show you a quick tutorial.

Let me get straight to the point by clicking on “Create new board.”

Let me define its name here, for example, “Articles Production.” From now on in this

course, we will use the case of producing articles to discuss Kanban’s techniques.

Click on "Next".

Now, it is time to add the steps of our workflow, and I will add the

steps from the Articles Production examples we discussed in past lectures.

The first step is “Not Started”; next, “Write”, then “Review,” “Publish,”

and, finally, “Done.” These will be the five steps of our workflow.

Click on “Next.”

Here, we can choose the types of cards and their colors.

We already have two types here.

Let’s keep them and click on “Next.”

Now, we need to choose a background for the board.

Let me choose this one and click on “Next.”

Now, we are asked to create a few tasks to be added on the board.

I am going to add the topic of the first example article to be written,

“How to Be an Inspiring Leader.”

Let me add another one, “Project Management for Small Teams.” One more,

“How to Inspire People.” And, finally, our last one, “How to Solve Conflicts.”

Now, let’s click on “Create board.”

Here I have my Kanban board with the four tasks that I created.

Let us assume that I, Mirko, will work on the first article.

Let me assign myself to it by clicking on the card and selecting my name.

As you can see, the first article is assigned to me.

Let’s move it to “Write,” then “Review,” then “Publish,” and, finally, “Done.”

As you can see, using the board is easy and intuitive.

Here, I assumed I would execute all these steps, but in practice, usually,

the card will have different assignees.

Let me wrap up this lecture by moving around some cars on our board.

And, this is it!

In the following lectures, let's learn how to setup up a professional Kanban board!

See you there!
