As I have previously mentioned, this section’s goal is to learn how to create

a professional Kanban board from scratch.

In other words, you will leave this section ready to create a Kanban board

for your organization or personal work.

For this purpose, we will use the example of the marketing agency as the context.

In other words, from here on, we will simulate scenarios of applying

Kanban to the marketing agency.

Notice that, the focus here is on Kanban, not on marketing.

I had to choose one example because it would be unfeasible to run the

scenarios using each industry domain.

I chose marketing and this example of article production because it

is a simple scenario that all the students can easily understand.

Thus, if you are from other areas, don’t worry because I will give

examples from other industry domains throughout the course.

And, if there is a specific issue from your industry domain that

you have questions about, send me questions on the course’s Q&A board

and I will be happy to answer them.

Further, while I work on the example project, I encourage you to try

to apply the concepts to your organization or personal work tasks.

The value of doing this is that you might have important insights or

questions that you can ask me, helping you to get the most out of this course.

Going back to our marketing agency, we will assume that

it has a team of six members.

The members are motivated and work hard, but, they have the feeling

that they are not productive.

This is common in teams that don’t adopt Kanban and end up having several symptoms

of low productivity such as not having clear priorities, using different tools

to manage work, absence of standards, and not meeting goals and deadlines.

Further, unproductive teams usually don’t collaborate, having each person only

aware of their own responsibilities.

Usually, unproductive teams are always overwhelmed, having many different

sources of work - a manager handles one desk, another manager gives another

one, a former leader of an old project tells one of the team members to work on

tasks from the old project, and so on.

In summary, this scenario is very discouraging.

Because of all these issues, we are assuming that the marketing agency

decided to adopt the Kanban Method to see if it would help them manage their

workflow and become more efficient.

And, Kanban Method’s first step is to identify the work that is

already being done by the team to start populating the Kanban board.

Let's discuss this task in the following lecture.

See you there!
