Now that we have identified the work, our next step is prioritizing it.

In a Kanban board, a work item's priority is reflected by the position of its

card in the first column; the higher the card, the highest its priority.

You might be wondering.

“Based on what should I prioritize each work item, Mirko?

What is the main objective of prioritizing the work to be done?”

The main goal is to maximize value delivery to our customers and users.

In KanbanTool, defining the priority is very simple.

We just need to drag and drop each card in the position that

reflects its respective priority.

For example, Luana’s task could be moved down here, while Rulio’s

task could be moved over here.

Now, let us go back to the point I raised in the past lecture: why did we

put all the tasks in the TO DO column?

We did that because it is frequent to have a person multitasking, being

assigned to multiple open tasks, such as Luana over here with two tasks.

However, in most cases, it is better to work on one task at a time.

Therefore, when prioritizing, we give special attention to cards

where a person is multitasking.

The person should be focusing on only one task: the one with the highest priority.

Over here, we can easily see which of the tasks Luana is

assigned is the most important.

The one with the highest priority is the one that Luana should focus on right now.

Another important point about this step is that we don’t need to prioritize all

the work items but only focus on the short term, such as one week of work.

Why?

Because things change.

Your customer's priority might change.

Thus, can you imagine taking the time to plan work for the next month,

having the perfect plan, but then having to cancel most of the work

because your customer's needs changed?

It would be a waste of time, and remember that one of Kanban's goals

is to avoid waste and avoid wasting time with tasks that are not valuable.

There is no value in planning and specifying tasks that

will not be executed.

Again, focus on the short-term and the most valuable tasks.

Usually, focusing on work for one or two weeks is enough.

Now that we have identified the work and prioritized it,

it is time to map the workflow.

Let us talk about this in the following lecture.

See you there!


