When we talk about defining the workflow on a Kanban board, we're

talking about defining its columns.

In other words, having the columns represent each step of the workflow,

as we did in previous lecturers when we discussed the Kanban

board for the marketing agency.

Here, the columns represent the steps necessary to complete an article.

At this point, a critical aspect is that the Kanban board should

represent the workflow already being followed by the team.

The result can be a board as simple as this one, having only three

columns - TO DO, DOING, and DONE.

Or, it can be more detailed, like this one.

Again, the important thing is that the Kanban board must reflect the

organization's current workflow because Kanban's first principle

is to start with what you do today.

We start by mapping the current practices, and only later do we apply other Kanban

techniques to get better and better.

And how do you map your current workflow?

It is simple: just ask yourself – where does the work start?

Which is the first step?

Then, which is the next step?

Your answers will guide you in creating the columns representing your workflow,

as we did for the marketing agency.

Here, our board has five columns: NOT STARTED, WRITE, REVIEW, PUBLISH, and DONE.

Why?

Because we are assuming that the marketing agency was already following

this workflow before adopting Kanban; in an inefficient way, but still.

And, do not be so attached to the columns' names because you can change them later.

The best board configuration is the one that is approved by the team.

Now, let me show you how to quickly modify the Kanban board's columns on KanbanTool.

The first step is to go up here and click on SETTINGS.

Then, go to the BOARD EDITOR.

Here, we can visualize the board's correct columns and easily modify them.

Let us modify this board to reflect the marketing agency's workflow.

The first column should be named NOT STARTED.

Notice that we have many settings for a column here, but this is not important

now; we will learn these settings throughout the following lectures.

The second column, WRITE; third column, REVIEW; fourth column,

PUBLISH; and, last column, DONE.

And this is it.

Now, we have the Kanban board reflecting the marketing agency's workflow.

Let me close the window, and we can see the updated Kanban board here.

The next step is to define Work-in-Progress limits.

Let’s work on it in the next lecture!

See you there!


