When adopting Kanban, a common question is how to deal with urgent items?

Let us go back really quickly to our Kanban board.

Looking at it, everything seems fine.

The workflow is defined with Work-In-Progress limits, and the tasks

are assigned and properly placed.

However, does this board reflect daily reality?

Are all the tasks beautifully planned in real life as presented over here?

Or are there last-minute, urgent items we need to complete as soon as possible?

How do we deal with these critical tasks?

Do we use a separate flow?

Can we break the rules, such as overflowing work-in-progress limits?

From here on, let’s address this issue.

The first thing we must do is set a visual signal that the item is urgent,

and the standard way to do so is using a card with a different color.

In KanbanTool, doing this is pretty straightforward: just click on the

card, go to the field named “Card type,” and change it to “Urgent.”

We can see that the card became red, and let’s go back to our board.

Now that we have signaled the card as urgent, we can add a lane to our

board to ease managing urgent cards.

Do you know those pool lanes where people swim?

So, we can also add lanes to our Kanban board.

The goal is to have it look like this, making it very easy to

spot and manage urgent items.

To create it on a Kanban Tool, click on “Settings” and then click on “Board

Editor.” Here on the bottom, we have the option to “Add swimlane.” Click on it.

Let’s name it “Urgent” and click on “Create.”

The swimlane has been added to the bottom of the board.

Let’s move it to the top by clicking on this arrow.

Now, let’s close the window and go back to the board.

As you can see, we have the “Urgent” swimlane, so let’s

move our red card over there.

In summary, we made urgent items more visible on the Kanban board by

signaling the urgent cards with red and by having a lane to visualize

to make their progress evident.

Setting up a Kanban board for handling urgent items is helpful.

However, the most critical point is “what characterizes an item as urgent?”

Is it an item asked by the company's director?

Or is it something that is causing financial loss to the customer?

What defines an item as urgent?

If we don’t have policies regarding this, this “Urgent” swimlane will

get filled with tons of urgent items in the first hour of the day!

There are companies where everything is urgent!

We need to make it clear that the “Urgent” swimlane is only

for tasks that are really urgent!

It should be for those situations when someone needs to stop working

on whatever they are working on and handle the urgent task.

Thus, it is crucial to define rules of which tasks can go into this lane.

Such rules must be defined and agreed upon.

We can't have tasks going into this lane just because a

manager said the task is urgent.

The answer to the question “what is urgent?” depends on the context,

but an example here is when a Web site crashes and gets offline!

In this case, the software team needs to stop whatever they're doing, put

the Website back online and figure out what caused the Website to crash

to avoid the issue happening again!

Again, independent of your context, the important thing is to have explicit,

well-defined, and agreed-upon policies for what makes an item urgent.

Another good practice is to define the number of urgent items that can

enter the lane in a given period.

For example, we can define a rule that a maximum of two cards can

enter the urgent lane per week.

By doing this, we will make people be more careful when determining something urgent

and avoid making your team crazy by being constantly interrupted to put out fires.

Now that you know how to handle urgent items, in the following lecture,

let's see another way of setting up the Kanban board that might be very

helpful!

See you there!


