Now, let us go back to our basic Kanban board and discuss another popular

variation: using Buffer Columns.

Notice that we have already used this variation in this course’s first section

while discussing the Pull System.

At that point, we broke down the WRITE and REVIEW columns into two

subcolumns: IN PROGRESS and DONE.

The “Done” subcolumns are what we call Buffer Columns.

There are a few reasons for using them.

First, it makes it easier for us to apply the Pull System concept.

Why?

Let us see an example.

Over here, we have that this article’s writing has been finished.

Remember that work is pulled from the right in the Pull System.

Thus, since it is indicated here that this article has been written, someone

can pull it to the REVIEW column.

Second, Buffer Columns expose problems in the flow.

Back to this example, let’s suppose that it has been two days since this article

has been waiting for someone to review.

In other words, the team has been blocked from pulling more articles

to be written for two days!

Thus, we need to figure out what is wrong with the REVIEW step and ensure

that a reviewer is available to pull this article and make the flow move.

In Kanban, we do not want queues!

We do not want cards accumulating!

Now, let’s see how to create Buffer Columns on KanbanTool.

First, let’s go to “Settings.”

Then, go to “Board Editor.”

Let’s start by breaking down the “Write” column into two.

For this purpose, click on this icon, and, automatically, two columns appear.

Let’s change the name of the first one by clicking here and changing the column name

from “Buffer” to “In Progress.” Save it.

Now, let’s do the same for the second subcolumn.

Change its name from “Working” to “Done” and save it.

We are done with the WRITING column.

Now, let’s do the same for the REVIEW column.

Click on this icon.

Click here to edit the first subcolumn's name.

Change it to “IN PROGRESS” Now, click here and change the

subcolumn’s name to “DONE.” Now, we are done with the REVIEW column.

Close this window and go back to our board.

As you can see, Column Boards can be handy to manage your flow, and it is

pretty easy to use them on Kanban Tool.

In the following lecture, let's discuss one more popular Kanban board variation.

See you there!


