
w, suppose that we have two teams working on maintaining a system: the

maintenance team, focusing on fixing defects, and an installation team,

focusing on installing or deploying the system, in other words, making

the system available to the users.

In this case, each team could have a Kanban board.

This is the Kanban Board for the maintenance team, which we

discussed in the past lecture.

Now, the conclusion of the Maintenance team work marks the beginning of

new work for the Installation team.

Thus, we can change this last column’s name from “Done” to

“Waiting for Installation Team.”

Whenever the Installation Team is available to work on any of these tasks,

they will pull the card to their Kanban Board by placing it on their Backlog

column, and, from there on, the card follows the Installation team workflow.

Now, let's imagine a slightly larger scenario, such as an app

almost everybody uses: Instagram.

Like in any other system, Instagram’s teams frequently launch new stuff.

What if they used the Kanban Method?

How could they set up their Kanban Boards?

We could have something like this.

Of course, I am treating the boards symbolically here, not getting

into each of the boards’ details.

In practice, each of these boards would undoubtedly have more steps.

I just want to illustrate that you can use multiple Kanban Boards

to manage multiple teams' flow.

For example, let's assume that the Requirements Team identified

a significant improvement to Instagram’s Android application.

Thus, over here, analysts would specify how the app should be modified.

Whenever they're done, they hand off the task to the Development team,

who would take the specifications and implement the changes to the app.

Whenever they are done, the Testing team would test whatever was impacted by

the change and, whenever they're done, handle the task to the marketing team.

The marketing team would create marketing assets for announcing

the improvements to users.

And finally, the deployment team would release an updated version

of the app to the Play Store, making it available for users.

Have you noticed how using a sequence of Kanban Boards makes it easy to manage

the entire flow of getting a task done, even when working with multiple teams?

And the incredible thing about using a series of interconnected boards is

that further ahead in the course, in a little while, we will learn some

Kanban techniques and metrics used for evaluating and optimizing our flow.

When we have a chain of interconnected boards, we can make an even more

comprehensive and impactful analysis and optimization of the business as whole.

Now, we are done talking about how to use multiple Kanban boards, and

let's move to the following lecture!


