To wrap up discussing how to construct Kanban boards, in this lecture, let’s

talk more about the Kanban card.

Understanding what the Kanban card means is very intuitive.

So, I haven’t explained much about it up to this point, but I am sure you

understood that a card represents a task.

In our examples, the cards only have a name and an assignee.

However, we could add more information to them, and using an online system, such

as KanbanTool, brings lots of flexibility in what information can be added to them.

To add more information to a Kanban card, we just need to click on

it, and this window will open.

Right here, you can add a description to the task using lots of formatting

options such as adding bullet lists, bold, and even hyperlinks.

You can also attach files, which might come in very handy when we are,

for example, working with documents.

In our example, we could attach the article related to each task.

We can also define its priority, due date, add a checklist, and more.

As you can see, KanbanTool gives us a lot of features and flexibility

for registering important information on the Kanban cards.

For this reason, I recommend using an online system for adopting Kanban.

However, using physical cards and boards is also an option.

So, let’s talk a little bit about physical Kanban boards.

The main difference when working with physical Kanban cards is that we have

less space because we use post-its, measuring around 8 to 10 centimeters wide.

Traditionally, this is the anatomy of a Kanban card.

In the middle, we have the task’s title.

Up here, we have the initials of the person responsible for the task.

Over here, a reference number relating the physical card with a

task from an online system such as Trello, Jira, TFS, or KanbanTool.

This information might be useful for teams that want to use both:

physical and digital boards.

I have worked in teams adopting physical and digital boards.

The reason was that the team felt like using physical boards made collaboration

easier, but they needed to keep persistent data about the process.

Further, using a digital system gave the team more flexibility for

registering information, such as attaching files, and made it easier to

share them between the team members.

Finally, at the bottom, we have the start and end dates.

Thus, this is how a traditional Kanban card looks like.

Here is an example of a slightly different Kanban card, including

additional information such as

the estimated time to finish the task and a color signal

indicating that it is critical.

We can also use the back of the card to, for example, register the

dates in which the card entered and left each of the columns.

We will discuss this later, but be aware that this information is critical

for analyzing flow performance.

Notice that when using an only system, such as KanbanTool, this

type of information is automatically collected, and diagrams such as

this one are automatically created.

This diagram is the famous “Cumulative Flow Diagram,” and

we will discuss it shortly.

And with this, we conclude this section on the Kanban Board.

Assess your knowledge by taking the end-of-section quiz and, if we

have any questions, ask questions on the course’s Q&A board, and

I will be happy to answer them.
