Let's start talking about campaigns, key metrics by discussing about the lead time.

the time a work item takes to go through.

Through the entire flow.

When we start counting when the When the.

Item is created any certed in the board's left post column.

we stopped counting whenever it is moved to the right most column.

In other words, considering that Kevin focuses on delivering value.

To the client continuously.

The lead time is the period between the moment a request is.

Created by the client in the moment that the request is satisfied.

From.

This point of view, it becomes clear that this is a highly central metric for us in.

Kanban.

we seek is to have an average lead time that satisfies our business

needs, especially our clients.

lead time is calculated by adding up all.

All the lead times and dividing it by the number of close desks.

And essential tool to help us analyze.

Analyze the lead time of a cable board is the lead time chart.

In this.

chart, each dot represents the period the test took to get done.

this first dot represents an item completed on January

1st in this position on two.

On the Y axis because it took two days to get done counting from the day.

It.

Was created.

In other words, this task had a lead time of two.

Let's example.

sees that you items got done on January 4th.

This blue one has a lead time of three days one has a lead time of one.

Lead time chart help us first.

Let's remind remind that our goal is to seek for behaviors trans.

or bottlenecks that are getting in our way and compromising our workflows.

Efficiency.

From our data, the team's average lead time is 1.89 days.

This metric is a primary indicator of the team's performance.

Average lead time, the better.

Now going back to our our question.

How can.

Can this chart.

decisions that will lead.

To reducing our average lead time.

That's an, Ally's it one thing that we we can notice is that

most of the items less than one.

Or chew this, however, a few of them less than three days.

actual mood before the team to discuss, why did this task list three days?

Do they have something in common?

It might be the case that three days for this.

Desk is reasonable.

But it might also be the case that they could have been done faster.

Which would reduce average lead time.

That's the goal goal is to define action points to get

done with that's faster and as.

As a consequence, reduce the average lead time.

With Kanban best way.

To analyze the food and make decision is as a team collaborating.

Raising questions and discussing the answers.

do is analyze parents.

On the dots.

For example, we could say that the orange dots are related to book fixing.

And the blue dots.

Movements.

But taking we can easily see that the orange dot.

It seems to in Everage take longer than blue ones.

Which might indicate process to fix bugs could be improved.

At this glimpse on how to calculate and visualize the lead

time and how it can help us.

To improve our workflow.

Let's move to the following where I will teach you how to create a lead time chart.

See you there.


