Before getting into Kanban itself, let us start with the why.

In other words, let's start by understanding the main problem that

Kanban solves: the queue problem.

To illustrate it, let's see a real scenario.

Have you ever been to the Louvre Museum in Paris?

It is a fantastic place!

There are days that accessing it is pretty quick.

However, there are days that going to the Louvre Museum requires a lot of

patience, because the lines are so long!

Who has never experienced this situation of standing forever on a line?

In the restaurant,

in the bank, we face queues everywhere, even in the traffic.

For instance, there are days that Paulista Avenue, in Sao

Paulo, Brazil, is like this...

on others it is like this, and on other days, the same Paulista

Avenue is like this, full of cars.

Standing in line or waiting in traffic is never fun and feels

like a waste of time, doesn’t it?

What if we had the power to eliminate queues everywhere?

Have you ever imagined how the world would be without you needing to wait in lines?

I don’t know about you, but I feel my life is being sucked out of

me when I have to wait in line.

Thus, I would love leaving in a world without queues!

However, let's stop and think about this issue for a second.

Why are queues formed?

Why do you have to wait in line at the Louvre Museum, bank or grocery store?

Why do we have traffic jams?

Answering this question is key to understand the importance of Kanban.

Let’s understand why queues are formed by understanding what

happens at a grocery store.

Suppose that there are 5 people shopping and 5 cashiers working at a grocery store.

What happens if everybody decides to pay at the same time?

Since we have one cashier per customer, each customer would be immediately served.

What if we have 20 customers and they all decide to pay at the same time?

We will have lines!

Let's represent the grocery store as this box.

This arrow represents the customers that are arriving at the store.

This other arrow represents customers that are leaving the store.

We, as customers, would love to do our shopping, pay for the products and

leave without needing to wait in line.

For this to happen, this system, in other words, the grocery store, needs to manage

its resources, in other words, the cashiers, and make sure that there is

at least one cashier available to serve a customer whenever he is ready to pay.

If this is not possible, we, customers, would like to

wait in line for a reasonable period, say, at most 10 minutes.

Thus, the store could solve this by having as many cashiers as possible, or providing

mechanisms to make their service faster.

In general, we can visualize the problem as the following.

We have requests, which might be customers, vehicles, or any type of work.

And we have a system, which might be a grocery store, the roads from a city,

a product line, or a project team.

Finally, we have the outputs.

Whenever a system has queues, we can interpret it as being sick,

which means, that it is inefficient.

When we have the flu, we have symptoms such as runny nose or fever.

When a system is not capable of handling the real-time demand of its

customers or users, it has queues.

The longer the queues, the sicker the system.

Notice that this phenomenon happens in many businesses, be it a software

development company, a digital marketing agency, any production line environment

such as a car factory, and so on.

Thus, the challenge here is to manage the system's capability of handling the flow

of requests, be it customers paying for groceries or any other type of work, and

getting done with it as fast as possible.

Notice that in most contexts it is almost impossible to predict

when the requests will come in.

For instance, if you are part of a software operation and maintenance

team, when are bugs going to be detected by testers or customers?

Or, when are customers going to ask for support?

You can have estimates but not perfect predictions.

However, despite this, if we focus on managing the flow, trying to minimize the

time necessary to fulfill the requests, and making the best use of our existing

resources, we can have great results.

Of course, having zero wait time, in some situations, might be

too expensive and prohibitive.

For example, a grocery store cannot afford to have one cashier per customer!

However, again, we should aim to minimize the wait time to acceptable levels.

And, this is what you're going to learn in this course!

You will learn how to optimize systems, including your business and

projects, using the Kanban Method!

Let's make a quick recap.

At this point, you know that the Kanban Method focuses on

solving the queue problem.

However, you might still be having a hard time understanding how the queue problem

relates with your business and projects.

Let's explore this issue in the following lecture!

See you there!.
