The best lecture you learn about the lead time in the lead time chart.

No that's address how to build the chart.

Forest.

Where does the record information come from?

We.

Need to know the date when each task was created in the

date on which it was completed.

If you're using a physical Kaban board, did they start reading

all the cards, given this.

You would have to collect this information in manually create the chart.

If you use a. Too, such as cable or another similar one.

You can automatically generate the chart with a few clicks.

On Caitlin to click on tools.

on analytics.

And.

And this window opens now click on lead in cycle time in the

chart will be presented here.

Notice that the chart is not showing you up.

Here because my board doesn't have enough data.

However, if I had data.

wouldn't have something similar to what I showed in the previous lecture.

Pretty handy.

Right.

Even though using Kevin to makes tasks such as plotting the lead time chart.

Easy.

Some of you might be using physical cabin boards or your team uses

a digital tool that doesn't.

We have analytics features in the case you could use a spreadsheet to plot the chart.

a gift.

Gift.

one as a resource that you can download.

To To populate the chart.

Either delete times data in.

In this table.

The example data has each column representing.

Venting a date in 15 columns.

You can change this to fit your needs by Eddie.

More columns or having each they store data from different

periods such as one week.

Or one month instead of one day.

line here represents the lead time.

Of each test completed.

on January.

Very first one task was completed with the lead time of two days.

And another.

The other one was finished with the lead time of one.

On January 2nd.

had one test with a lead time of one.

so on.

see this information.

on the lead time chart, which is a scatter chart, having the X Xs for.

The date on which the tasks were completed, the Y X four

delete time of the task.

Tasks completed.

And the dot colors are associated with the lines from the table.

first line is represented by your blue and the second one by orange.

Example.

1st, we have adult with two days in.

I have another adult.

With one day awfully time.

that as previously discussed Xcel elder.

Although medically associates, the doc calls with the lines.

So.

So each line is represented by a different color.

However, notice that.

If you wish you can use the chart formative features

to customize the quarters.

To fit your needs.

And with this, we finished talking about the lead time.

In this lecture, we saw that cable to automate.

Automatically creates the lead time chart.

But weekend.

Alternatively.

spreadsheet for the same propose.

The second option might make sense.

If you work with physical cabin boards, or if your team uses a tool that doesn't.

Support lead time charts.

lecture.

That's.

Let's discuss our second carbon metric cycle time.

See you there.


