Another crucial Kanban metric for analysis and optimizing the

workflow is the Cycle Time, which is very similar to the Lead Time.

While the Lead Time measures how long a task took to get done since its

creation, in other words, from the customer order to its fulfillment,

the Cycle Time measures how long a task took to get done since the team

started working on it, in other words, from the production to its fulfillment.

Thus, the difference between both is that the Cycle Time

does not include this Wait time.

For example, for this task, we would measure the Cycle Time by starting

to count from the moment it was moved to this column and stop counting

whenever it reaches the DONE column.

As we did with the Lead Time, we can visualize the Cycle Time using a scatter

chart known as the Cycle Time Chart.

The analysis procedures are very similar but have a slightly different focus.

When analyzing the Lead Time, we are focusing on the customer’s

perspective since we are considering the period from when an order was

created to whenever it is fulfilled.

Conversely, when analyzing the Cycle Time, we're focusing on the team's workflow.

Thus, even though, mathematically, both metrics are very similar, they have

very different implications in practice.

For example, let's consider the case of purchasing a car and assume that the

car still needs to be produced, only then to be delivered to the customer.

From a customer perspective, we are worried about the Lead Time because

we care about the time it will take for the car to be delivered

to us from the day we purchased it.

However, what if you are the manager of the factory that produces the car.

Is the Lead Time useful for you?

Pause the video for a few seconds, answer this question, and then come back.

The answer is “no.”

Because after the car is purchased, there is a lot of administrative

work such as validating payment and lots of paperwork that the factory

manager has no accountability.

However, these administrative tasks are included in the Lead Time!

Therefore, the factory manager should only consider the Cycle Time, which considers

only the tasks that he's accountable for.

Having said this, it is important to reinforce that the business as a

whole should care about reducing this wait time to provide the customer

with the best experience possible.

That is why measuring Lead Time is important too.

Let’s go back to our marketing agency example.

Looking at the Kanban board, what could be done to reduce the cycle time?

In other words, which step of the workflow could be faster after a task has started?

For example, let's suppose that the organization has a high turnover,

meaning that the team wastes a lot of time onboarding new writers.

Given this, an alternative to speed up the onboarding and, consequently,

reduce the average time for writing articles would be to create guidelines

and video-based training programs.

Another alternative would be to use Artificial Intelligence-based tools

to automatically generate articles for the selected topics and have the team

work on only improving these articles.

Another option would be to work with freelance writers.

As you can see, by focusing on reducing the average Cycle Time and

using the Kanban board to analyze the workflow, we can devise ways

of making the team more efficient.

To wrap up this lecture, notice that creating the Cycle Time Chart on

KanbanTool is the same steps we followed to generate the Lead Time Chart.

If you use a physical Kanban Board or another digital tool without a

feature for the Cycle Time Chart, you can download the spreadsheet I made

available as a resource for this lecture.

Now that we have already covered Lead Time and Cycle Time, let's move to

our following lecture and cover our third key Kanban metric: Throughput.

See you there!


