Let’s now discuss Throughput, the third Kanban metric we

will cover in this course.

Throughput measures the number of items the team concludes in a given

period, such as a week or month.

This metric is important because one of Kanban's goal is to promote a

continuous and predictable workflow.

We can present the Throughput using a line chart like this one, where

the y-axis is for the Throughput, and the x-axis is for the dates.

In this example, the chart presents the data using a month as a reference.

Thus, our first data point means that 12 items were completed in January.

The second one means that 13 were completed in February, and so on.

Analyzing Throughput is an essential Kanban technique for many reasons.

First, we can easily understand past performance by seeing how

much work the team has delivered.

Second, we can use the information about past performance as a reference to

predict the team’s future performance.

For example, if the Average Throughput is 11, we can consider that the team

will keep the same pace in the future.

This indicator will help you plan and negotiate delivery dates.

Finally, we can analyze throughput to diagnose the workflow by analyzing trends.

For example, is the team getting faster?

Slower?

Or is the Throughput constant?

By discussing the trends, the team can define ways to improve the workflow,

which can reduce the Cycle and Lead Time.

Therefore, despite its simplicity, the Throughput is a useful indicator

of the team’s productivity.

In future lectures, we will discuss more advanced ways of visualizing the workflow

using the Cumulate Flow Diagram, which KanbanTool automatically generates.

However, if you wish to use this simple line chart,

you can use the spreadsheet I made available as a resource for this lecture.

Using the spreadsheet is straightforward.

You just need to input the data here for the number of items completed each month.

Notice that you can change the columns here to, for example,

represent weeks instead of months.

And, this is it.

We are done talking about the Throughput.

Let's move to the next lecture where we will discuss the last two Kanban metrics:

Work In Progress and Work Item Age.

See you there!


