Let’s now discuss our two final Kanban metrics, both related to Work in Progress.

The first is counting the Work in Progress,

and we could use a chart like this, where each dot represents the

Work in Progress for a given day.

However, in future lectures, we'll learn how to visualize the Work

in Progress more efficiently using the Cumulate Flow Diagram, which is

what professionals do in practice.

The second metric is Work Item Age.

This metric is also known as Aging WIP, or Aging Work in Progress, and

is the amount of time between when a work item started and the current time.

Notice that this metric only applies to items that are still in progress.

In practice, most teams represent this metric on the Kanban board by adding a

dot to the card for each day spent on it.

For example, this task has two dots, indicating that it started two days ago.

This other one has three dots, indicating that it started three days ago.

KanbanTool doesn’t have a feature for adding these dots, but you could represent

the same information using asterisks on the task’s title, as shown here.

Why is this metric important?

Two reasons.

First, because it can help us to identify tasks that are

struggling and require attention.

that could hinder our average cycle time, making it longer.

In general, the longer the Work Item Age, the longer the cycle time.

For example, there was a case in which we were developing an Android app.

And we had a card for a bug we detected on our app.

Our best Android developer was working on this bug.

And, the guy was really, really good.

He's the best Android developer that I have ever met.

However, at some point, I remember that we had five dots already on the card!

In other words, our Android specialist had been working on this defect for

a week and couldn’t figure it out!

We discussed the issue and ended up concluding that the bug was not

on our app but on Android itself!

Thus, we notified the Android team at Google about the bug

and waited for them to fix it.

I share this story with you because it's important to note that you

shouldn't use the work Work Item Age to pressure people to get done fast,

but as an indicator for having healthy discussions to identify tasks that

need attention and action points.

Another use case for the Work Item Age is to prioritize work.

Think about the food that you have in your fridge.

Have you ever been in a situation where you choose what to eat

based on the expiration date?

Sometimes, you're not looking forward to eating yogurt, but you end up eating

it because it is about to expire?

In other words, leave your task in progress for too long might spoil

your average cycle and lead time; in other words, making them too long

and possibly, hindering your chances of meeting performance expectations.

Thus, in general, a simple idea to apply is “first in, first out.” Get done with

the work items before starting new ones.

And, this is it.

In the following lecture, let’s wrap up talking about Kanban metrics

and discuss a fascinating, almost miraculous, relationship between

3 of the metrics discussed.

See you there!


