Now, it’s time to wrap up talking about Kanban metrics.

In this section, we have discussed the most important ones, and now

we will discuss three critical aspects of Kanban measurement.

First, start simple!

You don't need to adopt all of the metrics at once!

In general, you shouldn't do that, especially if your team doesn't

have much experience with Kanban.

Kanban should be a bridge, not a wall!

It should optimize your workflow, not get in the way!

Thus, only use the metrics your team sees value in improving

their workflow's efficiency.

Second, I want to introduce you to a concept many Kanban

professionals apply: Little’s law!

Little’s law says that the Average Cycle Time equals the Average Work in Progress

divided by the Average Throughput.

It is an elegant way of relating the key Kanban metrics!

But, what does this mean in practice?

For example, let's assume that the Average Throughput stays constant since there is

usually a limit to how fast we can go.

What happens if we have a high Average Work in Progress?

We will have a high Average Cycle Time, which is terrible.

Given this, what should we do if we want work items to, on average,

get done faster, in other words, reduce the average cycle time?

We should reduce the Work In Progress!

And how do we do this with Kanban?

By lowering the Work In Progress limits.

I have seen managers do the exact opposite!

Whenever the Cycle Time is too long, they panic and start more work, hoping

to get done with more stuff faster!

And, following Little’s Law, what happens is precisely the opposite!

I could do an entire course only on the mathematics of Little’s

law, but this is not our goal here!

The main takeaway that you should take is that the average Cycle Time is

directionally proportional to Work in Progress and that, if you want to reduce

the average Cycle Time, the easiest way to go is to reduce the Work In Progress.

Finally, be careful with predictions.

For example, going back to Little’s Law.

Say that we have a team with an average WIP of 20 work items, an

average Cycle Time of 5 days, and an average Throughput of 4 items per day.

It would be incorrect to say that we could magically increase Throughput to

8 items per day by assuming that the average Cycle Time is kept at 5 days

and increasing the average WIP to 40.

This is not how it works.

It is not that simple.

Little’s Law should be used to analyze the past, not to make predictions

because we cannot tell for sure how the changes will manifest.

For example, I have seen managers try to artificially increase Throughput by

adding new people to the team because the team would have more capacity and,

theoretically, more Work in Progress.

However, new team members usually need time to get used to the team’s culture

and processes, and the larger the team, the more communication complexity.

Thus, usually, the outcome is that the results are not what the managers expect.

In general, we have two types of indicators: leading and lagging.

Leading indicators allow us to make predictions.

Work in Progress and Work Item Age are leading indicators because

they predict the cycle time.

In general, the higher they are, the higher the cycle

time, as shown by Little’s Law.

Lagging indicators look at the past.

Lead time, cycle time, and throughput are measured after the events have happened.

They can be used as reference points but should be used

carefully when creating a forecast.

For example, it is not because your every Cycle Time in the past weeks was

5 items/day that your average Cycle Time for next week will be the same, because

there are factors such as items’ size and complexity, risks, and the team members’

availability that comes into play.

And we are done!

Let’s make a quick recap.

In this lecture, we wrapped up talking about Kanban metrics.

First, I reinforced that you don’t need to adopt all the metrics seen here.

Focus on making your workflow efficient, not on adopting metrics.

Later, we discussed how Little’s Law says that, on average, the

Cycle Time is directly proportional to the Work in Progress.

Finally, we discussed that you should be careful with making predictions

because Little’s Law, Lead Time, Cycle Time, and Throughput are

good measures of the past, not necessarily, predictions of the future.

Now, take some time to answer the end of the section’s quiz.

And please, if you have any questions, post them on the course Q&A board,

and I will be happy to answer them.


