In the past section, we discussed Kanban metrics and saw how to visualize

them using charts such as these ones.

Now, it is time to learn the Cumulative Flow Diagram, known as

CFD, which is a powerful way to visualize the workflow enabling

us to observe many Kanban metrics!

At first, many people find it hard to interpret this chart, but it's just

because they were never presented with the details of how the chart is constructed,

which is what you will cover here.

We will start by checking out how to construct a CFD using a spreadsheet, which

is available for you to download for free.

Then, I will show you how to use KanbanTool to generate

the CFD automatically.

Let's start with the spreadsheet and, together, create a CFD from scratch so

that you understand all its details.

We will start simple by using a bar chart to show the status

of the tasks on each day.

In the bar chart, the y-axis will be for the number of tasks and

the x-axis is for the timeline.

Over here we have a table in which we will enter data.

For each day, we need to enter the number of tasks on each our Kanban Board.

Two things to notice here.

First, I am currently using days for the timeline, but you could

change it to whatever fits you best.

Second, I assumed that our Kanban board has only three columns; in other words,

our workflow has only three steps: NOT STARTED, IN PROGRESS, and DONE.

Everything that I will explain from here on applies to the cases in which

our Kanban board has more columns.

Now, let's simulate an example here so that you can visualize how we

can visualize the data on the chart.

Let's initiate by defining that we had two tasks as NOT STARTED on day zero.

As you can see, the bar chart is updated, showing that, on day

zero, the red bar, which represents NOT STARTED, has a height of two.

On day one, let's say we started working on one of the tasks.

As a result, we had 1 task IN PROGRESS and 1 NOT STARTED.

Notice that the chart stacks two bars for day 1, each bar representing

the value of a state: red for NOT STARTED and blue for IN PROGRESS.

Then, let’s say that we completed one task, and a new one was

created, resulting in 1 task in each of the Kanban board’s columns.

Later, we completed one more task, resulting in two tasks

DONE, started working on another task, and, a new task was created.

Let me add more data for simulating the remaining days until we get to

day seven and complete all the tasks.

As you can see, this chart tracks and accumulates all the tasks that have ever

entered or progressed in our workflow.

Each bar shows how the tasks accumulate in each of the workflow’s steps.

However, in practice, we don't use a stacked bar chart for

visualizing this information.

Instead, we use a stacked area chart, such as this one.

This chart scares some people, but it's just because we're not used

to area charts, as we are with bar or pie charts in our daily life.

However, it is very similar to a bar chart.

The only difference is that the area chart links the data points,

showing some kind of continuity.

Let me explain what I mean by comparing both of them.

Let's start by linking the top of the red bars using black lines.

Let's do the same for the blue bars using an orange line.

Finally, let's do the same for the green bars using purple lines.

Do you see that the lines we plotted are the same lines that we see

separating the areas on the area chart?

Now, we can complete the chart by considering that each day has all

the bars, but some are not visible here because they have zero height.

For example, on day one, the bar chart only shows red and blue bars, but it's

because the green bars have zero height.

Knowing this, we can connect the yellow and purple lines to

the value of Y equal to zero.

If we do the same for days zero and seven, we complete the lines.

Finally, if we paint the areas under the lines, we have the area chart.

Now that you understand how to construct a CFD from scratch using a spreadsheet,

let's take a quick look at how to use KanbanTool to generate it automatically.

Open your Kanban board, click on Tools, then on Analytics.

This window will open.

Then, click on Cumulative Flow.

The CFD is displayed.

Since I haven’t messed a lot with my Kanban Board, the CFD doesn’t

show anything interesting, but the point here is only to show you how to

use KanbanTool to generate the CFD.

The main takeaway from this lecture is that the CFD tracks the tasks and

shows how they accumulated in the Kanban board’s columns for a given period.

I have shared this spreadsheet with you and advise you to play around

with it for a bit to understand better how a CFD works before moving on.

Even though the CFD is similar to a bar chart, it allow us to

analyze the workflow's stability over time more intuitively.

We will start discussing this in the next lecture.

See you there!
