Now that you are familiarized with the CFD, let's discuss how to use

it for analyzing your workflow.

We can analyze trends by observing the chart.

For this purpose, we focus on the height of each area because it shows

how the tasks are accumulating at each column of the Kanban board.

In the spreadsheet that I shared in the past lecture, there are

sheets with the example scenarios that we will discuss from here on.

In this first example, the height of the red area increases

faster than in the other areas.

Is this good?

Is this what we want?

Pause the video for a few seconds, think about this question, and then come back.

This scenario is bad.

The CFD indicates that more tasks are being created than the team

can handle because the red area is growing faster than the others!

In this situation, there are two possible causes: the team is

not fast enough or an excessive number of tasks is being created.

If the team is not fast enough, we could add more members to the team,

train them to become more efficient, or automate part of the process.

If too many tasks are being created, we could investigate why

this is happening and address it.

Let's move to the next sheet.

In this example, the green area is growing faster than the others.

Again, pause the video for a second, think about if this scenario is

positive or not, and come back.

This CFD also indicates a warning sign because it means that we have

idle team members or will have soon.

The exception, of course, is if we are approaching the end

of a milestone or a project.

In this case, it is expected that the green area to dominate the chart.

In general, we address this situation by moving members from the team to

work with something else valuable for the organization or trying to improve

the inflow of tasks for this team.

Now, let's move to the last example we will cover in this

lecture by going to the next sheet.

Which area is going faster?

the blue area!

Is this positive?

No, because it means that team is starting to work on many tasks but is not getting

done with them, generating queues.

In other words, the work in progress is out of control.

And which is the Kanban practice that addresses this issue?

Limiting the Work In Progress!

Did you notice how we can easily spot trends and analyze the workflow

stability by observing the CFD?

In the following lecture, let's discuss using the CFD to analyze Kanban metrics!

See you there!
