Welcome to our last lecture on the Cumulative Flow Diagram.

Here, we will discuss how to analyze it to come up with Kanban’s

three essential metrics: Lead Time, Cycle Time, and Throughput.

For this purpose, let’s go to the last sheet of our spreadsheet.

Let me zoom in so that we focus only on the graph.

Before going into the three metrics, let’s discuss a simpler

one: the Work In Progress.

We can spot the Work In Progress for a given day by measuring

the height of the blue band.

For example, here we have the Work In Progress for the 10th day.

Work in Progress is two because we subtract

the value of the top line of the band, which is three, by the value

of the bottom line, which is one.

Now, it is your turn.

What is the Work In Progress for the 12th day?

Pause the video, answer the question and come back.

The answer is three, resulting from subtracting four by one.

Now let's talk about Lead Time.

For this purpose, first, notice that each band has two lines.

For example, let's discuss the case for IN PROGRESS.

The top one marks the arrival of items on the IN PROGRESS column,

and the bottom one, the departure.

Given this, if you're interested in the Lead Time, we should focus on the top

lines from the top and bottom bands.

In our case, the top lines of the red and green bands, which

I have highlighted here in pink.

Why?

Because they represent the times in which a task was created, in other

words, arrived at the NOT STARTED column, and completed, in other

words, arrived at the DONE column.

Thus, we can measure the Lead Time for each point in which

we have a task arriving at the NOT STARTED and DONE stages.

In our graph here, we have two cases in which this happens.

For both cases, we compute the Lead Time by taking the horizontal

distance between NOT STARTED and DONE.

For this first case, the Lead Time is eight days, because the task arrived

at the NOT STARTED column on day one and the DONE column on day nine.

Now, it is your turn.

What is the Lead Time for this case?

Pause the video, answer the question, and come back.

In this case, the Lead Time is nine days because the task arrived

at the NOT STARTED column on day four and the DONE column on day 13.

Notice that the procedure is analogous to what we discussed in the cases where

we have more columns on the Kanban board.

What about the Cycle Time?

It is similar to the Lead Time, except that, instead of considering the arrival

of the tasks at NOT STARTED, we only consider when they arrive at IN PROGRESS.

For example, in this case, the Cycle Time is seven days

Finally, let’s talk about the Throughput.

For example, what is the Throughput between days 8 and 14?

Before answering, notice that the Throughput measures the number of items

the team concludes in a given period.

Thus, how do we compute it using the CFD?

For this purpose, measure by how much the height of the green band

increase between days 8 and 14.

In this case, the Throughput is two, meaning that two tasks were

completed between days 8 and 14.

And with this, we wrap up talking about the Cumulative Flow Diagram.

As we have seen, the CFD is a great tool to help us compute and visualize

key Kanban metrics and trends.

Now, take a few minutes to work on this section’s quiz.

And please, if you have any questions, post them on the courses Q&A board,

and I will be happy to answer them.
