Now that you have a grasp of the queue problem and Kanban, let us

enter the context of real companies.

This lecture will explain how the queue problem can seriously affect business performance

and how Kanban fits in as an ideal solution. Imagine a digital marketing agency

that helps other companies become relevant on the internet by producing content, such as articles, videos,

e-books and so on. Now, imagine that this agency uses the sequence of five steps

to produce each article. Initially, a card representing

an article is placed on the

Not Started column, meaning a new request for work has been created.

For example, we have a card here for an article to be written

with the theme “How to be an Inspirational Leader.”

Then it goes through the stages of Write,

Review, Publish, and, after it has been published,

it is considered

Done.

The process is simple and well-defined. However,

remember when we talked about the example of traffic,

and I showed you possible scenarios on Paulista Avenue? We can understand

this task board as an avenue where

each card is a vehicle. Thus, the current state of this board is equivalent to having an avenue

with just one vehicle. It is easy to manage

when we only have one task,

just as it is excellent to move around and open avenue! But, when we have more tasks,

in this case, articles to be written, published,

and so on, things can get complicated. Let us take a look at this board.

As you can see, we have several tasks here.

Do you think everything is alright?

Is the agency efficient? Pause the video for a few seconds

and think about these questions by analyzing

this board, using your current knowledge.

Let us analyze this scenario by starting to think in the Kanban way.

The Kanban Method’s motto is:

“Stop starting and start finishing.”

Now that you know this, can you identify any problem with how the agency is handling the articles?

Stop the video for a few seconds again and think about this question.

The main problem here is that the agency

is starting many tasks but not getting done with the articles.

Take a look at the number of completed articles. They only got done with two articles!

Now, look at the number of articles already started;

we have ten articles being written,

reviewed, or published.

However, only identifying that we have a problem is not enough.

What is the cause of the agency not being able to get done with the articles?

What do you think?

Clearly, the bottleneck here is in the Review column. We have six articles ready to be reviewed,

but they are not being reviewed fast enough.

This is the queue problem!

This queue of articles to be reviewed is similar to having traffic jams

or lines in the grocery store!

In this case,

the queue might have been formed because the agency does not have enough people to review articles.

Notice that this issue seriously impairs

the flow of articles as a whole; isn't it true? After all,

what matters is published articles, in other words,

articles in the column Done, and not how many I started,

right?

Not dealing with the queue problem probably causes several issues, such as waste of resources

and unhappy customers, since we might take too long to handle requests.

For example, this agency could potentially be publishing articles daily instead of weekly.

Notice that we got all these conclusions just by looking at this task board,

a simplified version

of what we call a Kanban board. Even though

the overall idea of handling the queue problem

to promote a continuous flow of value is simple,

this issue of lack of cadency might be silently happening at your business.

This disease occurs in companies from the most diverse areas,

including marketing, IT, product manufacturing,

law firms, and so on. And how do we solve these and other inefficiencies

that appear in workflows in several industry sectors?

The Kanban Method is precisely the solution to guarantee a continuous and optimized flow of value,

whatever value means for you. Examples include social media content,

a software product, a new shoe design,

giving support to customers, the specifications for constructing a building, and so on.

Kanban aims to aggregate ongoing value for your customers

while avoiding wasting your company's time and resources.

To provide all this magic, bring fluidity, and eliminate waste in the company’s flow,

the first big idea of the Kanban Method is applying

the Pull System concept. “What system, Mirko?”

Hang on, let’s talk about it in our following lecture..

.
