Finally, we are at the last step of adopting Kanban: “Enter Kaizen Cycle.”

Here is where Kanban’s mindset is really put into action.

Kaizen is a Japanese word that means "improvement".

And, when I say "improvement", we automatically think about "change".

But, changing what?

Changing the process.

Kanban is a mechanism to guide changes in the team’s processes by focusing

on reducing waste, such as queues, and making the process more efficient,

in other words, reducing the team's cycle time and lead

time and increasing throughput.

With Kanban, and this is also true with any lean or agile approach, there is

no such thing as a universal cookbook with all the details about the ideal

configuration of Kanban for your team.

Thus, it is up to the team members to collaborate and use their

knowledge and intelligence to empirically configure Kanban’s

aspects, such as the Work-In-Progress limits, to suit their needs.

They do that by following a build-measure-learn loop, where they

start with ideas, build their workflow and define the team's policies and metrics.

Then, they measure their workflow, learn by analyzing the collected data,

come up with new ideas, and so on.

For this purpose, it is crucial to define feedback events, which are planned

timeslots for the team to come together and inspect their progress by, for

example, analyzing the Continuous Flow Diagram and defining process improvements.

For example, some teams hold such meetings weekly, and others

have them every other week.

It is up to the team to decide the frequency that suits them best.

Another example of a feedback cycle is holding short daily meetings

to allow the team to synchronize tasks and analyze their workflow.

For example, they could discuss if the flow is going slower than

expected or if there are items that are taking too long to complete?

If it is the case, what can they do to get faster and complete these tasks?

In summary, to kick off your Kanban initiative, there is no mystery;

there is no need to hire, there is no need to create new positions,

and there is no need to define new processes or update existing ones.

You just need to identify the work, prioritize it, map the existing workflow,

limit Work In Progress, and start inspecting your process and adapting.

It is an evolutionary process, where the team defines their workflow, policies, and

metrics continuously as they learn more.

But, we are not done yet.

In the next section, let's discuss common mistakes people make when adopting Kanban

to avoid having you fall into these traps.

See you there!