At this point, we have discussed two common mistakes when adopting Kanban.

The third one is about working on ghost tasks.

And what is a ghost task?

It is a task that a team member is working on but is not shown on the Kanban Board!

If it's not on the board, the team can check the Work In Progress

limits and loses track of key metrics such as cycle time and lead time!

The classic example is whenever your boss asks you to work on something else, even

though you are already assigned to work on items that are on the Kanban Board.

But, you say “yes,” even though it is against the team’s policies because you

are afraid of saying “no” to your boss.

Your boss shouldn’t be doing this, but, unfortunately, in

real life, many of them do.

What to do?

Your team should talk about the issue with your boss and discuss the implications

of such behavior on the team’s efficiency and the value delivered to the client.

And, collaboratively, you should be able to, as professionals, come up

with a work agreement that will be beneficial for your organization.

We are done talking about “ghost” tasks.

Let’s discuss one more mistake in adopting Kanban in the following lecture.

See you there!

48. At this point, we have covered three common mistakes that

beginners do when adopting Kanban.

Let’s now discuss the fourth, and last, common mistake: ignoring

the Cumulative Flow Diagram.

Some beginners ignore it because it seems easier to measure performance and manage

flow by looking at the Kanban Board.

For example, we can see that we have a large queue forming on the Review column.

However, the Kanban Board is just a snapshot of the current situation.

The CFD gives you historical data, enabling the team to identify trends

by analyzing the chart and visually seeing how key metrics such as the Lead

Time, Cycle Time, Work in Progress, and Throughput has been changing.

Thus, don’t be lazy in setting up or understanding the CFP just

because you are not used to it.

The CFD is as easy to understand as a pie or bar chart, you might

just need a little bit of time to get more familiarized with it.

Given this, keep your CFD updated, and be sure to monitor it frequently.

And, this is the last common mistake in adopting Kanban that

we will discuss in this course.