In this course, so far, you learned that

Kanban is a way of optimizing the flow of value by using

a process based on a visual, Work-In-Progress limited pull system.

As a result, it helps you to solve the queue problem, remove waste,

and focus on the essentials.

We learn many Kanban tools such as Kanban Board, limiting Work In Progress, metrics,

Cumulative Flow Diagram, and more.

Kanban has been adopted in many contexts.

Several agile initiatives use Kanban to improve the way they work.

Even traditional, plan-based initiatives use some of Kanban’s

aspects, such as the board, to enhance communication and workflow.

However, remember when I talked about Toyota at the begging of the course?

Kanban was created by Toyota and was part of a system known as the

Toyota Product System, which we usually refer to as “lean thinking.”

Kanban is a powerful management tool; however, it is not a

pillar of Lean thinking or the secret to Toyota’s success.

Lean thinking goes beyond management tools.

It is about having the organization committed to continuously respecting and

investing in its people and promoting a culture of continuous improvement.

The organization should create an environment that encourages people to

challenge everything and embrace change.

Lean thinking is about teamwork and challenging the status quo by

constantly analyzing what you're doing and looking for ways to improve.

Kanban is a tool for bringing Lean thinking to life.

Thus, if you want to make the most out of Kanban, your organization must follow the

two principles of Lean thinking, respect for people, and continuous improvement.

Notice that Lean thinking principles closely relate to the 4 Kanban Principles

discussed earlier in this course.

The primary outcome here is that principles come over practices or tools.

Having said this, I hope you feel ready and motivated to put Kanban into practice!

But, the course is not over yet!

In the following sections, you will learn more about how Kanban relates to

the agile mindset and tools that will improve your chances of succeeding

with your Kanban initiatives!

Let’s keep moving.