Let's get started at full throttle by understanding, in

a nutshell, how Scrum works.

Scrum is very simple.

You start with a problem.

It might be, for instance, developing a new product or service.

Examples here include building new software or adding new features or

fixes to an existing one, designing a new car or building, developing an

innovative marketing strategy for your company, a new online course, and so on.

In Scrum, the team takes the problem and breaks it into smaller chunks.

For an e-commerce website, breaking the problem would be listing its

features such as sign up and login pages, having support for Content

Management System features, having payment methods, registering products,

shopping cart, product search, and so on.

The team lists everything in a to-do list called the Product Backlog.

This list is ordered so that the work on the top has a higher

priority than the work on the bottom.

Afterward, during a team event called the Sprint Planning, the team collaboratively

selects a few of the top to-do items such as "developing sign up and login pages" to

compose what is called the Sprint Backlog.

The items on the Sprint Backlog are developed and delivered in what is called

a Sprint, which is the heart of Scrum.

A Sprint is a period of at most one month.

At the end of each Sprint, a product Increment is delivered.

And what is an Increment?

For an eCommerce website, it is the website up and running , with

the new functionality, ready to go.

In other words, it is something that the customer can look at and see if it's

good or not; if it fits their needs.

If it does, great, the team is going on the right path.

If not, great too!

Now, the team has enough knowledge to adapt their to-do list and

improve their chances of delivering the best product or service.

So, the team keeps running the Sprints and refining the Product Backlog with

the acquired knowledge from inspecting Increments until the customer or

business decides that the product is good enough, or there's no more budget left.

To make this work, Scrum prescribes events and accountabilities.

Let's start with the events.

Scrum is composed of five events.

The first one is the Sprint, which is a container for the remaining ones.

Then, we have the Spring Planning, which we have already talked about, which

happens at the beginning of each Sprint.

And then, we have two events at the end of the Sprint, the Sprint

Review, and the Sprint Retrospective.

The Sprint Review is about inspecting the Increment and

adapting the Product Backlog, which we have previously discussed.

The Sprint Retrospective is about the team's continuous improvement.

So, it's about inspecting the team's processes and adapting them to

deliver as efficiently as possible.

And finally, there's the Daily Scrum, a 15 minutes event that happens daily,

where the team inspects and adapts their work, giving the team complete focus

on achieving the goals of the Sprint.

Now, let's talk about the three accountabilities.

The first one is the Product Owner.

The PO is the single person accountable for managing the Product Backlog,

ensuring that everybody is aligned with the work to do and that the

most important stuff is done first.

The Product Owner's goal is to maximize the value of the product!

Then we have the Developers.

They are the ones that transform the to-do list into Increments..

And last but not least, we have a fancy one, the Scrum Master, the one

who facilitates all of this work.

Together, they form the Scrum Team!

And that's it!

You've done it.

You had a glimpse of how Scrum works in just a few minutes!

I think this might be a record.

Don't feel overwhelmed if you feel like this video was too much.

The idea here was just for you to get a big picture of how Scrum works.

We will get into the details of everything that we have

discussed here in future lectures.