52.
Let's get started at full throttle by understanding, in

a nutshell, how Scrum works.

Scrum is very simple.

You start with a problem.

It might be, for instance, developing a new product or service.

Examples here include building new software or adding new features or

fixes to an existing one, designing a new car or building, developing an

innovative marketing strategy for your company, a new online course, and so on.

In Scrum, the team takes the problem and breaks it into smaller chunks.

For an e-commerce website, breaking the problem would be listing its

features such as sign up and login pages, having support for Content

Management System features, having payment methods, registering products,

shopping cart, product search, and so on.

The team lists everything in a to-do list called the Product Backlog.

This list is ordered so that the work on the top has a higher

priority than the work on the bottom.

Afterward, during a team event called the Sprint Planning, the team collaboratively

selects a few of the top to-do items such as "developing sign up and login pages" to

compose what is called the Sprint Backlog.

The items on the Sprint Backlog are developed and delivered in what is called

a Sprint, which is the heart of Scrum.

A Sprint is a period of at most one month.

At the end of each Sprint, a product Increment is delivered.

And what is an Increment?

For an eCommerce website, it is the website up and running , with

the new functionality, ready to go.

In other words, it is something that the customer can look at and see if it's

good or not; if it fits their needs.

If it does, great, the team is going on the right path.

If not, great too!

Now, the team has enough knowledge to adapt their to-do list and

improve their chances of delivering the best product or service.

So, the team keeps running the Sprints and refining the Product Backlog with

the acquired knowledge from inspecting Increments until the customer or

business decides that the product is good enough, or there's no more budget left.

To make this work, Scrum prescribes events and accountabilities.

Let's start with the events.

Scrum is composed of five events.

The first one is the Sprint, which is a container for the remaining ones.

Then, we have the Spring Planning, which we have already talked about, which

happens at the beginning of each Sprint.

And then, we have two events at the end of the Sprint, the Sprint

Review, and the Sprint Retrospective.

The Sprint Review is about inspecting the Increment and

adapting the Product Backlog, which we have previously discussed.

The Sprint Retrospective is about the team's continuous improvement.

So, it's about inspecting the team's processes and adapting them to

deliver as efficiently as possible.

And finally, there's the Daily Scrum, a 15 minutes event that happens daily,

where the team inspects and adapts their work, giving the team complete focus

on achieving the goals of the Sprint.

Now, let's talk about the three accountabilities.

The first one is the Product Owner.

The PO is the single person accountable for managing the Product Backlog,

ensuring that everybody is aligned with the work to do and that the

most important stuff is done first.

The Product Owner's goal is to maximize the value of the product!

Then we have the Developers.

They are the ones that transform the to-do list into Increments..

And last but not least, we have a fancy one, the Scrum Master, the one

who facilitates all of this work.

Together, they form the Scrum Team!

And that's it!

You've done it.

You had a glimpse of how Scrum works in just a few minutes!

I think this might be a record.

Don't feel overwhelmed if you feel like this video was too much.

The idea here was just for you to get a big picture of how Scrum works.

We will get into the details of everything that we have

discussed here in future lectures.


53.

To have a deeper understanding of Scrum's purposes and mechanics, it is crucial to

understand its roots in the Agile mindset.

Further, it is essential to comprehend Agile's older brother, the traditional

way of working, also known as waterfall.

Given this, this lecture focuses on giving you a better perspective

of the Agile mindset and how it compares to the waterfall approach.

Let's make things visual.

First, let me start here by drawing the X-axis for time.

And the Y-axis is going to be for the product vision, which here means

the product description, including its requirements and features.

Now, let's assume that right here is our initial vision.

The waterfall approach is also known as traditional, proactive, predictive,

plan-driven, and disciplined.

Why?

Because in waterfall, we aim to develop the perfect plan and then follow it.

I like to compare it with the way we work with a cannon.

Say that you have a target and need to hit it with a cannon.

What do you do?

You aim for the target and

"boom" take the shot.

"Aiming for it" in the business world usually means having an approved project

plan or a signed contract specifying what will be done, when, and for how much.

Further, "shooting" means following the plan.

Let's represent these concepts in our model.

Let's assume that this is a development cycle's starting point and that the

plan is represented by this arrow pointing to our initial vision.

Given that we have a plan, what do we do in waterfall?

We execute it until the end.

And, after a period, we will reach our initial vision.

Consequently, if we assume that we got the visual right at first and

have a fixed target, we are good to go if we can develop the perfect plan.

However, what if we can't get the vision right at first?

Let's go back to the cannon.

What if the environment changes?

If the wind starts blowing stronger?

Or an obstacle gets in the way?

Or if we have a moving target, like a car?

Let's represent such uncertainty by assuming that this is our correct

vision, far from our initial one.

Even though we were initially aiming correctly, we would miss the target!

The same thing might happen in the business world, especially when

working with new technologies and markets; the correct vision is,

usually, far from our initial one.

For this reason, waterfall can lead you to a useless product whenever

there is lots of uncertainty regarding what to build and how to build it.

Notice that I am exaggerating here slightly when comparing the waterfall

approach with shooting a cannonball.

Theoretically, in waterfall, we could change the initial plan, but, in practice,

we would not move the vision much because of the associated cost and bureaucracy.

As a result, two things might happen.

First, the implemented changes might not be enough to deliver the correct vision

or something sufficiently close to it.

Or, second, we might at some point get to the correct vision, but it will

be so late that it might be useless.

Given this, what is the alternative to waterfall?

Here is where Agile, also known as an adaptive approach, comes in.

In Agile, we assume that we initially don't know the target.

We acknowledge that we cannot come up with a perfect plan.

The idea is to deliver something close to the customer's needs in

short cycles, given what we know now and learn with experience.

Thus, here, we would point to our initial vision

and then make a rapid release to the customers or present

the product to stakeholders.

Notice that this release contains only a fraction of our current product vision!

After experiencing the result, the customers, stakeholders, and the

team become more informed and make a better decision about the product,

which might be adjusting our product vision.

At this point, you might be asking yourself, "But, Mirko, in practice,

why do such adjustments happen?"

There are many possible causes.

The first is our team learning more about the technologies being used.

The second is changes in the market or available technologies, for instance,

an update on the tools we are using.

A third is poor early and customer analysis.

And finally, there's the phenomenon popularly known as "IKIWISI", which

means "I know it when I see it".

For some types of products, especially the more innovative ones.

it is useless to ask potential customers if they will like the product or use it.

Why?

Because if the product is so innovative, they won't be able to really grasp

how they could interact with it.

Or sometimes, it is just too hard to explain the product to them

because it is so intangible, which is frequent with software products.

Given this, the users just know if the product is valuable when they see it.

In these scenarios, the only way to get meaningful validation from the

customers is to show them something usable and have them use it.

Right here, after they have analyzed or inspected our deliverable, we get

feedback from them and learn more about what needs to be delivered.

As I previously said, this might cause us to adapt our vision

and, consequently, our plan.

And then, what we do next?

We deliver a new version, get our customers to use it, analyze the feedback

and adjust again; hopefully getting closer and closer to the correct vision.

And we keep doing this until we reach the correct vision.

Given this, what is agility?

Agility, or being agile, means responding to change.

Now, let's do a quick review of what we covered in this video.

At this point, you know that waterfall is better suited for endeavors in

which we know what to do, what to deliver early in the development cycle.

Well-known examples are constructing a bridge

or a building because the scope, or the work to be done, is

not expected to change much.

Conversely, Agile is best suited for complex environments, where changes

are natural and should not be avoided because adapting is the way to lead

us to the desired outcomes, in other words, the correct product vision.

This scenario is frequent for developing innovative or complex products.

Further, you know that Scrum is an Agile framework for guiding changes.

Great job!

In industry, many people confuse being agile, rapid and lean.

In the following lecture, we will discuss how these concepts relate to

each other, giving you solid foundations for what is to come in this course.

See you there.

54.

Phiên âm
In the previous lecture, you learned about the distinctions

between agile and waterfall and that Scrum is an agile framework.

In this lecture, we will deepen our discussion about the agile mindset by

discussing three essential concepts: being agile, rapid, and lean.

Let's start by reflecting on this question: is being agile the same

thing as being rapid or fast?

Pause the video for one minute and try to come up with an answer.

The answer is: no!

Let me show you how the concepts relate to each other by going back to our model.

Again, let's assumed that we are here.

Being rapid or fast means getting to the vision fast.

Right here, when we were pointing to our initial vision, what does it

mean if we ultimately reach it fast?

Is this valuable?

Well, not really, because we're still far away from our correct vision.

This is considered waste.

Thus, only being rapid is not enough.

The difference between a rapid and the traditional waterfall approach is that

the rapid one delivers waste faster.

However, can you be agile without being rapid?

Let's assume that you want to be agile and respond to changes, but you are slow.

What is the outcome?

Well, it sounds like the waterfall approach.

For achieving agility, you must be rapid.

Think about rapid and Agile as a difference between a bullet and a Leopard.

A bullet is rapid, but it can't adapt along the way.

A Leopard, on the other hand, is rapid but can quickly adjust

to the environment if needed.

The bullet is not Agile, but the Leopard is; the Leopard is rapid and agile.

I hope that, after this lecture, you won't confuse the concepts of Agile and rapid.

Let's wrap up this lecture by discussing a final concept.

Agility is more related to getting to the correct product, but we need to get

there efficiently by reducing the waste.

Reducing waste is what is widely known as being Lean.

In the agile approach, we produce waste whenever we work on anything not

part of the correct product vision.

Thus, notice that the value of agile follows from it being capable of

making the necessary adjustments with as minimal waste as possible.

Thus, it follows that you have also got to be Lean for you to

succeed with Agile and Scrum.

The key takeaway from this lecture is that succeeding with Agile and

Scrum is greatly dependent on your capabilities of being both: Lean and

rapid, because you have got to get to the correct vision as fast as possible,

wasting as few resources as possible.

55.
At this point, you know that Scrum is a mechanism to guide changes.

However, is it a process?

A methodology?

A method??

I hear many people claiming that Scrum is a methodology or process, but by

doing so they're missing a key aspect of Scrum, which is its role as a means

for the team to define its own processes and methods to address complex problems.

Now, it is time for you to take a step forward and understand why

Scrum is considered a framework.

Let's model the world of Scrum as a subway system.

Here, we have Scrum and some of its concepts and practices.

And here we have practices from many knowledge areas that can be used to

complement Scrum depending or the context.

the bedding

Here, paths with different colors means that they are part

of different knowledge areas.

As previously discussed, the pink line represents Scrum official practices,

according to the Scrum Guide.

This green line represents Product management practices.

Dark orange represents Lean practices, and so on.

So, here, for instance, we see Product Backlog and Product Goal,

practices that are part of the Scrum framework to manage products.

That's why they belong to the Scrum line and are closely connected

to the Product Management line.

An example of completing Scrum is describing Product Backlog items

using the User Story notation.

Now, check this out.

Developing software without any DevOps, testing, or design

activity is a very risky endeavor, and I wouldn't recommend it.

Now, how many DevOps, testing, or design activities are part of Scrum?

Zero.

Yep, Scrum does not prescribe how to version, deploy,

design or test your software.

Does it mean that you don't have to do any of these activities?

Of course not.

For this reason, Scrum is defined as a framework.

Scrum gives you the strategy; the what backed by the whys.

Still, you, the user, must determine the hows, the tactics, making sure

that you conform to the rules of Scrum to avoid covering problems

and limiting the benefits of Scrum.

You might be wondering: "Why do we need to define how to adopt Scrum?".

Because each product, organizational culture, technology,

and so on are different!

And defining the how is very context-sensitive.

Trying to make a general-purpose solution is doomed to failure.

That is why Scrum doesn't even try to go there.

However, don't get me wrong.

Scrum is a potent tool for your toolbox, and, in this course, I will equip you

with the necessary skills to apply Scrum for real, being aware of its boundaries

and where you and your team will need to step up and make decisions to complement

the framework to suit your needs.

The key takeaway from our discussion here is that to use Scrum successfully,

depending on your domain, you must complement it with other

processes, methods and techniques.

Again, Scrum is a framework, but a very powerful and useful one.

56.

[Introduction] The Scrum Guide
Hey,



In this course, we go over the Scrum framework by following its official definition, as described in the Scrum Guide.



You can download the most recent version of the Scrum Guide in English from this lecture's resources.



Or, you can access its official Website and read it online or download it in your native language: Click Here to Access Scrum Guide's Official Website



Let me know if you have any questions,



Mirko

Tài nguyên cho bài giảng này

https://att-c.udemycdn.com/2022-09-13_02-25-14-7f1de4e6411d04cb0cabc1c02918814d/original.pdf?response-content-disposition=attachment%3B+filename%3D2020-Scrum-Guide-US.pdf&Expires=1769716862&Signature=UC4h-twCmsOegaeP5rb6D~AxpI61D-mH7o3sNYJnyc4UYn6kxxmzY01b1ICa77-BAmGYr0kggc~w2YrGj44iAWudzGrSlp7klFSvxYheSa02RMfWuRUgPgHFq4AWWI-cBQAGj~Z74Fl9FIJNQjHjAFZaOyXvxTwocYMDsxoh7vdmy66qHQY1ztDii5ReEbApNSEtwvQjeAjamFlyvCfjS6qLXNhZNY~U94pRrbR6B8ZmBAb5NbXu9N6JmIbjDbWxUDy2diZwcovml2qsChhCnLzICizlePuY6UZKN6PbiMDeKWTC31V0l0VcZFAkf5ZI0ihnLvX2iHJWfkFqoAw3og__&Key-Pair-Id=K3MG148K9RIRF4

56.

The essence of Scrum is a Scrum Team

as we have previously discussed, the Scrum Team is formed by the Product Owner,

the Scrum Master, and the Developers.

Ideally, you would have one person as the Product Owner, another one for

the Scrum Master, plus the Developers.

Typically, the Scrum Team is composed of 10 or fewer people.

But this is not a rule.

You could have one person playing multiple accountabilities, and it logically

follows that no one needs to be full-time.

The Product Owner is the business person and takes care of the Product Backlog.

The Developers are responsible for transforming the ideas reflected in

the Product Backlog into Increments.

And the Scrum Master is there to make Scrum run smoothly.

Collectively, the Scrum Team is responsible for all product-related

activities, from stakeholder collaboration to research and development.

Further, the entire Scrum Team is accountable for creating a valuable,

usable Increment every Sprint.

The Scrum Team is a cohesive unit of professionals focused on one objective at

a time, the Product Goal, which we will talk more about later in this course.

To achieve the necessary efficiency and flexibility, a Scrum Team is

self-managed and cross-functional, meaning that it has the autonomy to

define who does what, when, and how, and that it has all the skills needed to

accomplish the work without depending on others not part of the Scrum Team.

Now, let's talk about each accountability, starting with the Product Owner, which

is the topic of the next lecture.

57. 
Let's talk about the Product Owner.

The PO maximizes the value delivery chain.

In other words, he or she is accountable for maximizing the value of the

product resulting from the Scrum Team.

Think about what I just said for a little bit.

Do you agree?

Or is this a very radical view?

If you agree with me, you might agree that the PO can be seen as the optimization

entity with the power of making the team rapidly deliver the desired product

or, in the worst case, make it run in circles or never release something useful.

Now you might ask.

Mirko, assuming that you are right, how does the PO do that?

By managing the Product Backlog within the Scrum Framework.

It all starts with developing and explicitly communicating the Product

Goal, which is the long-term objective for the Scrum Team.

Why is having the Product Goal important?

To answer that, let's refer to a classic story, Alice in Wonderland.

One day, Alice came to a fork in the road and saw a Cheshire cat in a tree.

"Which road do I take?"

she asked.

His response was a question: "Where do you want to go?"

"I don't know," Alice answered.

"Then,", said the cat, "it doesn't matter."

See?

Giving the Scrum Team a goal to fulfill gives it a sense of purpose,

helping it to make better decisions.

We will talk more about the Product Goal and more details on how the

Product Backlog is managed by the Product Owner later in this course.

For now, let's have an overview of how the Product Owner maximizes the value

of the work performed by the Scrum Team.

It all starts with some business people with a lot of ideas for a product.

Therefore, here we have the business side.

For instance, let's consider the following problem.

Japan is a country with a very strong culture, producing goods in

several domains, such as fashion, cooking, games and collectibles.

There are several online stores in Japan, but some of them don't ship abroad or

have all the information in Japanese, making the life of foreigners very hard.

A particular website that brings the attention of many buyers from

the other countries is Yahoo!

Auctions Japan.

But as I said, it only sells to people that live in Japan.

So, how can we provide a service for people that live

abroad to buy stuff in Japan?

A solution is to build a proxy service such as a website, which is connected

to Yahoo and that could serve as an interface for people to buy in Yahoo.

You might visualize that there are several features that this website should have,

such as searching for a product, buying, a shopping cart, payments, and so on.

At this point, you have a better understanding of what

happens on the business side.

On the other end, we have the Developers, who transform the ideas into value,

in other words, usable products.

But where is the PO?

The PO is right here.

So, in general, the PO's job is to analyze the ideas from the

business people and transform them into requests for the Developers.

The list of requests is what we call the Product Backlog.

The challenge is that the ideas come up way faster than their development.

Therefore, the Product Owner is responsible to consider inputs

from the business and technical people and define a sequence in

which the requests are fulfilled.

Such as sequence must maximize the value delivered by the Developers,

satisfying business needs.

For this purpose, the most important requests must be

fulfilled earlier in time.

In other words, they must come first and are placed on the

top of the Product Backlog.

Got it?

An important point to keep in mind is that the Product Owner is not a bridge

between development and business.

They can talk to each other if needed, but the business people cannot interrupt

or try to command the Developers.

And, who is here to make sure that all this works efficiently?

The Scrum Master.

As we saw, the Product Owner maximizes the value delivery chain.

Now, since business ideas are created faster than they can be developed, do

you think the Product Owner needs to act like a filter rejecting or accepting

requests from the business stakeholders?

No, definitely not.

The Product Owner just needs to make sure that the requests are ordered correctly.

Having the most important ones come first.

This is part of what we call Product Backlog management.

We will talk about how the Product Owner manages the Product Backlog later.

Now, let's move to the next lecture!

58.
Now, let's talk about the Developers.

They are committed to creating any aspect of a usable Increment each Sprint.

In other words, they transform the ideas reflected in the Product Backlog

into something usable and valuable.

In Scrum, the Developers are cross-functional.

In other words, the sum of the skills of all the Developers

must be enough to deliver all the aspects of a usable product.

Notice that individuals might have a specialized area of focus,

such as development or testing.

However, there are no sub-teams or hierarchies, and they all share the

accountability for planning their work and delivering high quality outcomes.

This is very important.

In Scrum, if you create any aspect of an Increment, you are a Developer.

The goal of this characteristic is to create unity.

Even though individuals might have specialized skills or areas of

focus, the accountability regarding creating usable products belongs

to the Developers as a whole.

There is no individual failure or success.

Again, the focus is on the team as a whole.

Additionally, the Developers, as the entire Scrum Team, self-manage.

They collaborate to solve team problems focusing on team goals and they

define who does what, when and how.

No one tells them how to do their work.

Furthermore, to promote self-management, it is necessary

to have an alignment between the Developers and the business people.

The Product Owner has a pivotal role here by being an effective member

of the Scrum Team and working closely with the Developers..

However, having alignment with the Product Owner is not enough, the

Developers must also have autonomy in deciding on what to work on.

For this purpose, during Sprint Planning, through discussions with the Product

Owner, the Developers select the Product Backlog items for the Sprint.

In other words, the Product Owner does not tell the Developers what to do.

There is no command and control in Scrum.

So, here in this cartoon, this is what we want.

The PO frames a business problem.

"We need to cross the river."

The Developers figure out how to do it.

Solving problems, making decisions.

This is what motivates knowledge workers: the Developers.

If you take it from them, performance goes down.

Creativity is hindered.

You don't want that on complex products.

It's a no-no.

At this point, we have discussed that the Developers are

cross-functional and self-managed.

Given this, do you think that the Developers should be

generalists or specialists?

Now is the time that you should pause the video and think about it for a little bit.

Let us start answering this question by analyzing the

scenario of having specialists.

One of the main reasons for the lack of cohesion on the Scrum

Team is the lack of redundancy.

In other words, lack of having multiple team members with similar skills.

Why is it important?

Because you want the team members to give each other feedback,

assist others in tasks, or complete tasks started by others.

If each person only works on part of the problem, you won't really have

a team, but just a group of people.

Therefore, you can't really have a team composed only of specialists.

What about generalists?

Well, they know a little about a lot of stuff.

It would be okay if we were working with simple stuff, but for

complex products is not enough.

So what to do?

You need a mix of both.

You need people that are specialized in whatever skills or technology

you need for the product.

But at least some of them must be open to moving around the system

or problem at hand more freely, giving the team the flexibility

it needs to promote good teamwork.

For instance, I once worked on a project in which we had

two major fields of knowledge.

We had web development and Android.

So the team was composed of eight guys.

One of them is one of the best Android Developers out there, and our

project was really, really complex.

So, what happened?

This guy only worked with Android stuff.

We also had two guys who were our experts in web development.

So they only worked with web development, but the other

five guys worked on both ends.

Thus of course, we didn't have full redundancy, but the team had enough

flexibility to make collaboration work, and this project, even though it was in

a very complex domain, was successful.

Notice that this is not a rule.

The Scrum Guide does not give any recommendations or rules on

how to select your Developers.

I am just giving you an example here to help you understand the concepts better.

The best solution is very context-sensitive.

Great!

We are done with the Developers.

In the following lecture, you will learn more about the Scrum Master.

See you there.

59.
Now, let's talk about the Scrum Master.

The Scrum Master wears two hats, serving the organization and Scrum Teams.

She helps those outside the Scrum Team interact positively with the team.

She's accountable for the Scrum Team's effectiveness and serves it to improve

its practices within the Scrum framework.

For instance, she assists the PO on how to manage the Product

Backlog to maximize value.

Further, she also coaches the Scrum Team on how to self-manage and

deliver done and valuable Increments.

Therefore, we can conclude that the Scrum Master is accountable for establishing

Scrum, as defined in the Scrum Guide.

She does this by helping everyone understand Scrum theory,

practices, rules, and values.

She also causes the removal of impediments.

An impediment is anything that might hinder the team's productivity.

Many teams register them in an impediment list.

Here we have some common examples of impediments.

Let me share a real story with you.

I used to work as a Scrum Master for a team that worked with a smartwatch

for a very famous brand; we were trying to collect data using the smartwatch

sensors to process them later.

For this purpose, the Developers from my team followed the provided

Developer manuals, but it didn't work.

So they came to me.

After reviewing the document with them and checking what they had done, we concluded

that something weird was happening.

I knew people who worked directly with the smartwatches manufacturer;

given this, we were able to talk with people from the inside.

After that, it came to our knowledge that they had a bug.

However, they showed us a workaround for the problem, which our team implemented.

This story is an example of the Developers asking the Scrum Master for help by

raising any impediment and the Scrum Master doing whatever he can to solve it.

But, Mirko, when are impediments raised?

They can be raised anytime.

But, usually, this is done during the Daily Scrums.

And finally, we have that the Scrum Master is responsible for leading

and facilitating Scrum adoption.

She ensures that Scrum is understood by the entire organization, going

from planning Scrum implementation within the organization as a whole and

facilitating meetings if necessary.

Given this, in summary, the Scrum Master is a true leader who serves the

Scrum Team and the larger organization.

https://medium.com/@mirkoperkusich/who-is-responsible-for-quality-in-the-scrum-team-78b0070cc2dd

60.

To demonstrate how Scrum works, detailing, how each event should be held, how

each artifact is constructed and sustained, we will use a case study.

And, I'm not talking about a toy example, but an actual product.

For the case study, we will simulate developing a Web app,

which we will cover in a little bit.

Still, I invite you to go further and try to follow my lead by a applying

Scrum to a project of your own, be it creating a new marketing strategy

for your company, a personal branding strategy on LinkedIn or other social

networks, constructing an online course, such as this one, or whatever problem

or opportunity you're facing right now.

The case study we will cover is perfect for understanding how Scrum

works, but your learning experience will be more valuable if you

follow my steps, understand what I'm doing, and try to apply it to

your life; right here, right now.

If you just want to follow the case study, that's totally fine too.

It will be enough for you to master how Scrum works.

If you get stuck somehow or need help, you can count on me.

Just leave a question on the courseâ€™s Q&A board.

In the following lecture, I will present an overview of the case study.

See you there.

61.
Our case study will be about , Konyu, a service to buy

products in Japanese stores.

Let's start by taking a look at its main features.

Just so you are familiarized with the system.

Here we have some content.

So we need to develop content management system features.

Here we can change the language and currency.

And over here we have a search box.

Let's make a search for, for instance, Nintendo.

Okay.

So here we have a list of products.

Let's order them by the ones with most bids, since we are

talking about auctions here.

Now it's ordered.

Notice that the items shown here are actually items from Yahoo Auction Japan.

Konyu is just a proxy.

Now let's find a product to bid, just to demonstrate how it works.

I'm not actually going to bid.

Let's take this one.

It already has 122 bids.

So here we have the images for the product, current price

number of bids, time remaining.

The most important feature here is the bid now, so we can click on bid

now, but now notice that you can't bid because you're not authenticated.

So you need to sign up or log into the system.

I'm going to log in here really fast.

Just so we take a look at the user's homepage.

Okay.

So what do we get here?

First, over here, we have the amount of money that I have on my wallet.

So to buy products in Konyu, you need to add money to your wallet and

then that money will be available for you to bid on Yahoo products.

An extra feature that we have here is the add to watch list.

So if I click here, the product is added to my watch list.

What does it mean?

It means that o nce this auction is near to its end, I'm going to

receive an email just to remind me.

Now, let's take a look at my homepage.

Over here, we can see the auctions that are running, which means if I bid in

a product, I can see it status here.

If I'm winning or losing here, we have the watch list.

I've just added this item to my watch list.

And down here, we have the auctions that I've won.

After I win in auction, the product will take a few days and will be available

for me to order a shipment to my country.

So I can go over here and order a shipment.

And over here I can select the available products, select the shipping

service and send it to my place.

So there are other features, but this is enough.

Now you have a great overview of Konyu and we are ready to roll.

62.
Let's start talking about the Product Goal.

The Product Goal describes a future state of the product, which can serve as a

target for the Scrum Team to plan against.

Now, the question is: what fulfills the Product Goal?

What do we need to do to get there?

And the answer is the rest of the Product Backlog.

Having a Product Goal is key for giving the Scrum Team a concrete

strategy on what it needs to build to deliver a valuable, useful product.

But, what is a product?

According to the Scrum Guide, a product is a vehicle to deliver value.

It has a clear boundary, known stakeholders, and

well-defined users or customers.

A product could be a service, a physical product, or something more abstract.

Thus, the product itself cannot be the goal.

It is just a means to achieve a higher level objective, which might be to

increase profit, acquire users, explore a new technology or marketplace,

have a specific social impact,

and so on.

Therefore, the Product Goal is the long-term objective for the Scrum

Team, and the Scrum Team might need multiple Sprints to fulfill it.

Who is accountable for it?

The Product Owner, of course.

He or she is responsible for developing and explicitly

communicating the Product Goal.

Now, for you to have a better grasp of the Product Goal, in the

next lecture, let's discuss the Product Goal from a more practical

perspective by defining one for Konyu.

See you there.

63.
Welcome!

And.

Now let's define the product goal for our case study.

Before talking about the product goal itself, let's recap what the

Scrum Guide says about a product.

A product is a vehicle to deliver value.

Therefore, the Scrum Team must be aware that the product itself is not important.

What matters is its benefits.

What matters is having happy customers or users, having people happy and willing to

use and even pay for the product, if the intention is to profit directly from it.

The product has a clear boundary, known stakeholders, and

well-defined users or customers.

Such information is usually part of a product vision.

As discussed in the last lecture, having a product vision is not

a Scrum rule and the scrum Guide doesn't even mention it anymore.

However, I will show you a quick example here for Konyu, because I think that

it will be helpful for you to better understand what is a product goal.

What we see here is a product vision defined for Konyu using the product vision

board made available by Roman Pichler.

As you can see, it has five sections.

In the first one, we have the vision statement, which describes

the product's purpose and impact.

For Konyu is: "enable customers worldwide to buy in Japan with ease and low-cost".

The target group characterizes the market and lists the target customers and users.

For Konyu, we have four customers.

Collectors and store owners and for the internal users, customer support operator

and marketing in the third section needs, we have the problems that the product

addresses, the target customers pains for . We have that the current services

to buy in Japan are complex expensive or of low quality and a collector

loses a lot of time mining for items.

This is mostly targeting collectors, that purchases items on Japan's auctions.

Now the product section lists information about envision product

itself for quantity we have, well, we need a web app, a mobile app.

It should be easy and safe.

Real-time bidding, manage store orders, schedule bid, recommend auctions.

These are the most important features that this product should have.

And last but not least we have the business goals, which lists the

benefits for the organization itself .For Konyu, one goal is to reduce

the cost, to sell Japanese products.

Further, since that company was previously an e-commerce store that targeted mostly

Brazilian customers, it envisions Konyu as an opportunity to expand from selling

only to Brazil to sell worldwide, using a business similar to drop shipping.

As you might have noticed, it seemed like a lot of stuff to be done.

So the product vision, in this case, it's kind of like a moonshot.

It can be too much to only have the product vision as the target, not

helping the scrum team to stay focused.

However, before moving on, let's see what the scrum guide

says about the Product Goal.

It says that the product goal describes the future state of the product,

which can serve as a target for the scrum team to plan against this.

The Scrum Guide does not really define many restrictions of what

makes a useful, a good product goal.

According to it.

This could be the product goal.

And depending on the context, this could be okay.

The scrum guide does not prescribe how you should define a product goal,

because it is very context sensitive.

However, to increase our understanding, let me show you how we could go a step

further and to find a better, more attainable and measurable Product Goal..

First, let me just put here the product vision for Konyu.

It is pretty small, but you don't have to read it.

It's the same information that we had before.

Okay.

So having an initial target is good.

It is our first step.

What now?

Well, where are we at?

Let's assume here that no versions of Konyu have been released yet.

Given this what could be the first strategical product goal to be

pursued before answering this?

What are common for the goals?

How do organizations defined them here?

We have a list of possibilities.

Acquiring customers, retaining customers, increasing engagement, activating users,

generating revenue and reducing cost.

However is , for instance, just saying that the product goal

is acquiring customers enough?

I don't think so.

If you acquire one customer, do you satisfy the product goal or do you need 2?

10?

100?.

Can the customer be from friends and family?

If my mom creates an account, do I meet the product goal?

I think you got my point here.

It is a good practice to add more information to the Product Goal.

For instance, let's try to come up with a target date, the goal to be achieved.

The main features; between three and five is okay.

And the metrics to verify if we have achieved the product goal . For the date,

let's say here six months . For the goal, let's say acquire 20 customers from three

countries, making at least one purchase.

For the features, we have sign up and sign in, product search, auction

bidding, and international shipment.

In this case, the metrics are pretty straightforward because

our goal was very specific.

So we don't even need to fill it up.

With the Product Goal defined, the Scrum Team has now a more realistic, attainable

and concrete goal to pursuit in its role to fulfill the product vision.

Now who comes up with the product goal, the product owner is accountable, but

a good product owner will involve the entire scrum team and key stakeholders

to increase transparency and buy in.

In the next lecture, let's talk about the product backlog, which is what

describes this part of the product goal.

I'll see you there.

64.
Let us now talk about the Product Backlog.

The Product Backlog is an ordered emergent list of what is needed

to improve the product, including features enhancement, fixes, and so on.

It is ordered because , typically, the Product Owner places, the

most important stuff on its top.

It is emergent because in contrast to traditional, waterfall approaches,

the Product Backlog follows what we call Just-In-Time requirements.

As we have previously discussed, in a traditional approach, we aim

to detail all the work upfront.

In Scrum, we only get just enough items ready for the upcoming sprint.

For example, this is a list of Product Backlog items for Konyu.

Notice that these descriptions are not detailed enough for the

Developers to know what to develop.

Further, some of these items seem too large to be developed in one sprint.

For example, developing a recommender system in one month

does not seem to be feasible.

Thus, we can conclude that none of these items are ready.

We usually call these short descriptions of work to be done Epics and this

is usually what we have on the first version of the Product Backlog: only

short reminders of the work to be done.

Now, take a look at this Product Backlog item.

It is described using a notation called User Story, where we describe

a product capability, such as a feature or requirement in terms of the

expectations of the product's users.

If we are using physical cards to register the Product Backlog items, we would

have the front of the card describing the type of user and her desires.

In this example, the user is a buyer who wants to bid in real-

time on Yahoo Auction Japan.

The back of the card would have the acceptance criteria, which is a list

detailing the expected behavior of the product, giving the Developers enough

information to know what to develop.

Notice that such information can also be registered for the Product Backlog

items using a digital tool, such as JIRA, but going over such tools

is out of our scope in this course.

In Scrum, typically, we want only the top Product Backlog items to be

described with this level of detail.

Why?

Because we expect to learn along the way and don't want to waste time describing

Product Backlog items with high chances of changing or being discarded,

Thus, at this point, you know that the top Product Backlog items

are usually more important and detailed than the bottom ones.

Further, we also want the top Product Backlog items to be

small enough to fit a Sprint.

For example, let's consider this to be our current Product Backlog.

By looking at the top item, “Register and Authentication,” it

seems unfeasible to develop all the features related to it in one Sprint.

Thus, the Scrum Team could break it down into 7 User Stories, as shown here.

After breaking down the Product Backlog item, we would re-order

the Product Backlog, as shown here.

The items marked in orange are the new, smaller items.

Notice that they have different importance since we have a few of

them on the top and a few on the bottom of the Product Backlog.

This shows the importance of breaking down the Product Backlog items to be small

enough to separate the important from the not-so-important aspects of each item.

In general, a healthy Product Backlog looks like this only having a small

part ready for Sprint, meaning that they are detailed enough for

the Developers to know what to do and small enough to fit a Sprint.

We call this act of further prescribing and breaking down Product Backlog

items, the Product Backlog refinement,

Product Backlog refinement can be done at the beginning of Sprint Planning,

the end of Sprint Review, or any time during the Sprint, typically, in

Product Backlog refinement sessions.

Notice that we could add more details to the Product Backlog items,

including estimates and business value.

Discussing this is out of the scope of this course, but I have

added articles about these topics as a resource in this lecture.

If you have questions, please let me know.

In this lecture, you had an overview of what is a product

backlog and how it is managed.

In other words, you learned about the input, the single

source of work of the Scrum Team.

In the following lecture, we will discuss the Increments, which are

the outputs of the Scrum Team.

See you there!

65.
Let's now talk about the next Scrum artifact, the Increment.

You already know that the Increment is the outcome of a Sprint.

But, what is an Increment?

An Increment is a vertical delivery.

"But, wait, Mirko, what do you mean by a vertical delivery?"

It is better to use images than words to answer this question.

For this purpose, let’s use the famous Mona Lisa painting by Leonardo da

Vinci as an example of a product.

First, let's visualize what a horizontal delivery strategy would look like,

resulting from an iterative workflow.

As you can see, we only start to see colors in the second

version of the painting.

On the other hand, with an incremental workflow, we would

have something like this.

As you can see, an Increment is a vertical delivery, having all

the layers of part of the Product.

Here, in the first version of the painting, we had

part of it completely done.

To compare both delivery methods, iterative and incremental, take

a look at their first step.

For the iterative method, we know that we will have a woman, but

there are no details regarding her skin color, eye color, and so on.

For the incremental method, we have part of the painting good to go,

with all the details and colors.

Scrum is both iterative and incremental.

Thus, it is something like this.

Starting here, you can see that we have vertical deliverables, but we also defined

the main foundations of our vision.

In the software world, we can use this analogy to mean that we

would have, early in the product development stages, a vision of the

product’s architecture and features.

In Scrum, each Sprint must, ideally, have usable features ready to be released.

Additionally, the system's architecture should be somewhat

ready to handle new features enabling us to fulfill the product vision.

For other areas, such as architecture, engineering, product design, and so on

the Increment might be models representing how the actual product is going to look.

Nowadays, there are several cool technologies that can make Increments even

better for getting customer feedback, such as printing 3d models for a new shoe, or

you can use virtual reality or augmented reality for interior design projects.

If you're working with a product that involves developing hardware, such as

robotics, it might be unfeasible to produce the hardware parts every Sprint.

For example, you can't produce a part of an autonomous vehicle, every Sprint.

However, you can develop prototypes based on tools such as

Arduino or Raspberry Pi boards.

The important thing is that the Increment needs to give users and stakeholders an

authentic experience of using the product.

Why?

Because the Increment is the compass of any Scrum initiative.

It is what guides the entire effort.

If the stakeholders don't have something concrete to use and evaluate, they

won't be able to give quality feedback to the Scrum Team and all the other

aspect of Scrum become useless.

It would be like the Scrum Team getting blind.

Never forget this.

When working with complex problems, asking users what

they want is usually not enough.

They only know what they want when they see it and use it!

In the following lecture, let's complement our discussion about the Increment

by going over the Definition of Done.

See you there.

66.
The Definition of Done is defined by the Scrum Team and is a set

of criteria that increases the alignment and shared understanding

of the expected deliverables.

It explains to everyone involved what Done means by describing the state

of the Increment when it meets the quality measures for the product.

For instance, let's consider the case of organizing your closet.

For some people, this closet is well organized.

So, if the outcome of the task "organize the closet" is this,

they would consider it to be done.

For others, a well organized closet is like this, where you would have

nothing on the floor, the types of clothing and shoes organized by type

and color, and everything symmetric.

For them, this is not done; while this is done.

In Scrum, the Definition of Done can be seen as a gate.

Whenever it is fulfilled, the work is done.

Otherwise, it is not done.

It is composed of criteria, which might include quality assurance tasks, such

as having someone else review the work done by another person or quality metrics

thresholds that must be fulfilled.

It might also include aspects related to architecture and nonfunctional

requirements, process management, configuration management, and so on.

For instance, suppose that you are an architect and have the given task:

“Design the 2D layout of a house”.

For example, if I am your client and email you asking, "Hey, are

you done with the house design?",

And you say, yes, I'm going to think you have a PDF file ready for me.

Conversely, you might think that an AutoCAD file is enough for

the task to be considered done.

Do you see, in this example, there is no shared understanding

regarding the deliverable.

In this example, you need to consider some questions for defining the Done criteria.

Is it done if you design the house on AutoCAD and save

it locally on your computer?

Or do you need to share it on a specific folder on Dropbox, for instance?

Can you name the file the way you want, or do you need to follow a pattern?

Do you need to export the file into a specific file type?

Can you send the AutoCAD file to your client or do you need to send the PDF?

This set of criteria is simple but very important to give you factual information

about your client's expectations

In Scrum, depending on your context, you may define a done criteria for each

important milestone that you might have.

You could describe when technical tasks, Product Backlog items,

releases, or projects are done.

It all depends on your context.

For instance, sometimes working with government agencies require

you to have lots of documents, characterizing a deliverable as done

. In this case, producing and updating such documents must be part of

the team's Definition of Done.

Let's see what I have defined for Konyu.

I'm not going to get into details here, but as you can see, I have different

types of criteria, including quality, process and configuration management.

Further.

I have added targets for the quality aspects, such as having

zero critical or major defects open.

The most important takeaway from this lecture is that the

Definition of Done is the only Scrum practice focusing on quality.

Unfortunately, many people neglect the Definition of Done and get

to the Flaccid Scrum problem when a team starts with a very high

velocity, but loses it with time.

Why is the team losing velocity?

Because probably they're producing a low-quality product and when you start

working with low-quality stuff, the team will lose velocity at some point.

So, my word of caution here is: Don't neglect the Definition of Done.

As previously discussed, the Increment is what guides the Scrum Team in achieving

and adjusting the Product Vision because it enables feedback to be gathered.

The Definition of Done assures that the feedback received is based on something

concrete and gives the necessary balance for the team to stay productive over time.

Before moving on, let me address a point many people get confused about

Please, don't mix the concepts of the Definition of Done and a

User Story’s Acceptance Criteria.

The Acceptance Criteria are specific to a single User Story.

Conversely, the Definition of Done englobes all of them.

For instance, for a web app, one Definition of Done criteria

could be that the pages must load in less than one second, given

a decent internet connection.

All increments must satisfy this criterion, independent of the

Product Backlog items involved.

Now, we are done talking about the Definition of Done.

In future lectures, we're gonna go over what happens during the Sprints,

starting with the Sprint Planning event.

Let's keep moving.

67.
Now, let's talk about Sprint Planning.

This event initiates the Sprint by laying out the work to

be performed for the Sprint.

For the Product Owner, planning efforts start before Sprint Planning.

He or she must enter the event having analyzed what needs to be done next and

what should be the purpose of the Sprint.

In other words, the Product Owner must have a set of Product Backlog items

and their mapping to the Product Goal.

The Product Owner might analyze questions such as which ideas and

assumptions need to be validated, which risks need to be addressed,

or, for instance, which functionality needs to be provided or enhanced.

In Scrum, the Sprint is like a mini project,

and the Sprint Planning event is when the Scrum Team defines the

goal of what to build and the flexible plan to guide achieving it.

The plan is called the Sprint Backlog.

Now, let's talk about Sprint Planning itself.

First, who participates in Sprint Planning?

The Scrum Team.

Further, the Scrum Team may invite others to attend to provide advice.

For instance, the candidate Product Backlog items might require working with

a new technology that the Scrum Team does not have enough experience with.

Therefore, it might be a good idea for the Scrum Team to

invite a specialist to assist it.

Another example would be working with a specific domain, such as

developing a health web application.

In this case, there are international standards that have a direct impact

on the app's requirements, and it is vital to be aware of them for

being able to release the app.

Thus, if the Scrum Team isn't familiar with such standards, it might be a good

idea to invite a specialist to help it.

Further, how do we execute the Sprint Planning?

The event has three topics to be addressed

First, why is this Sprint valuable?

Second, what can be Done in this Sprint?

And third, how will the chosen work get done?

The event is timeboxed to at most 8 hours for a one-month Sprint.

For shorter Sprints, the event is usually shorter.

Let's start talking about the first topic.

It begins with the Product Owner discussing the opportunities

for increasing the product's value and utility and how the

current Sprint can address them.

As a consequence, the whole Scrum Team defines a Sprint Goal, which

communicates why the Sprint is valuable, bringing transparency.

As an example, for our case study, let's assume that the Scrum Team

came up with this Sprint Goal:

“Users easily access the system using a valid e-mail.”

After the Sprint Goal is created, it is time to define what can

be Done during the Sprint.

For this purpose, the Developers select items from the Product Backlog through

discussion with the Product Owner.

Notice that it might be necessary to refine these items during the event.

To define how much can be completed within the Sprint, the

Developers might use information, such as the upcoming capacity.

The upcoming capacity is about how many hours available the

Developers have for this Sprint.

For instance, will anybody be out of the office during the Sprint?

This situation might be the case if anybody has a planned vacation.

Further, the Developers could also consider their past

performance as a reference.

It is not the case for our case study because we are simulalting the first

Sprint, we are assuming to have a new team, which means we don't have

data to be used as a reference.

Another factor that the Developers should consider for defining what can

be Done in the Sprint is the Definition of Done because the more stringent it

is, the longer it might take to get Done with each Product Backlog item.

After considering all these aspects, the Developers select the candidate

Product Backlog items for the Sprint.

Given this, let's assume that, for our case study, the Developers selected

these three Product Backlog items.

At this point, we have covered the first two topics of Sprint Planning.

Let's continue discussing it in the following lecture!

See you there.

68.
Now, let's talk about the third topic of Sprint Planning.

The goal now is to come up with the Sprint Backlog, which consists of

the Sprint Goal, the Product Backlog items selected for the Sprint,

and the plan for delivering them.

Notice that, at this point, the Sprint Goal and a set of candidate Product

Backlog items have been defined.

Thus, we still need to create the plan.

And notice that the Developers have the final word regarding this step since no

one can tell them how to turn Product Backlog items into Increments of value.

Scrum does not prescribe how the Developers should do this, but we

will see an example here to understand better how this is done in practice.

Most Scrum Teams decompose the Product Backlog items into technical tasks,

which are smaller chunks of work, often to units of one day or less.

The goal here is not to define all the tasks, but to give the Developers a

better forecast of the work they can do.

Let's see an example of how the Developers could decompose the Product Backlog items.

For instance, if you're working on a software product, which is what we

are simulating in our case study, the Developers can start by designing a

sketch of the solution, which includes the user interfaces, integration with

other systems, and so on, so that they have an overview of what needs to be done.

This activity should take around 15 and 20 minutes.

After everybody has a big picture, they can sit, each team member with

a stack of small index cards they will use to write technical tasks.

And then for each Product Backlog item, in our case here, we have

three, each person secretly will write tasks, one for each index card.

They will do that for five minutes.

After the five minutes, they will share their tasks and discuss each one to try

to come up with the final set of tasks.

A good practice is to get the sketch you have done previously and try to

map the tasks you have planned with each part of the system integration

or user interface you have to develop.

But this is just an extra validation step to check your tasks'

completeness and is not mandatory.

The goal is to reach a consensus regarding the tasks for each Product Backlog item.

As an example, let's simulate following this procedure for our case study.

The first Product Backlog item is about the user signing up

or registering on the system.

Let’s assume that the Developers came up with these tasks.

There are no rules here regarding how to write down the tasks.

There are only two essential points.

First, the Developers must be able to remember what the task

is about during the Sprint.

In other words, each task needs to have enough details for reminding the

Developers what they were thinking about during Sprint Planning.

And the second point is that the Developers don't need to predict all

the tasks to be done during the Sprint.

They should focus more on the first few days of the Sprint.

Of course, the most they can predict, the better if they can do it fast.

However, it is totally normal; it is expected to have new technical

tasks coming up during the Sprint.

The main goal here is for the team to have more informed

decision-making to plan the Sprint.

Let's keep going.

For the second Product Backlog item, which is about logging in

the system, we had these tasks and for the third one, these tasks.

After decomposing the Product Backlog items, what do we do?

Well, it's time to wrap up the event.

After thinking more about the Product Backlog items and having more information

about the work to be done, the Developers might negotiate the selected items

for the Sprint with the Product owner.

As a result, they can end up selecting more Product Backlog

items, fewer Product Backlog items, or keep it as previously planned,

always focusing on the Sprint Goal.

For our case study, we're just going to keep the three Product Backlog

items we have selected previously.

And as a result, we have the Sprint Backlog.

Great job!

You have just developed your first Sprint Backlog.

From now on, whenever the Sprint Planning is over, only the Developers can change

the Sprint Backlog, and the Sprint Backlog is their only source of work.

This rule is fundamental for maintaining the Developers’ autonomy.

Let's keep moving.

69.
The Development Work is the work performed by the Developers to develop

the Increment during the Sprints.

Now, what exactly do the Developers do during the Sprint?

Since the team is cross-functional, they must be able to do all the work

necessary to deliver Increments.

Depending on your domain, if it's social media, marketing, software development,

hardware development, architecture, engineering, course creation, you

will have different types of tasks.

In the software world, we go from requirement definition to system testing.

So, of course, if you're not from the software world, you don't have

to worry about each of these boxes because you'll have different

boxes depending on your domain.

But the point is that in Scrum, during a Sprint, we want to do all this work.

Usually, the Sprint work is made visible using Scrum Boards.

The Scrum board is a fundamental tool to enable collaboration, communication,

and transparency, important factors to enable self-management.

A good Scrum board is divided into what we call swim lanes.

Swim lanes separate information from different Product Backlog items.

For example, this swimlane that I have highlighted only has the work related

to the first Product Backlog item.

The first column holds the Product Backlog items, and the remaining

ones represented team's workflow.

The most simple version of the board divides work into three steps: To

Do, holding the tasks not started;

WIP, which stands for work in progress and holds the tasks started, but not finished,

and Done, for the work that is done.

You could have more steps here, but this decision is up to the Developers.

You could represent the Scrum board physically, on your

wall, or use a software tool.

And this is all you need to know about the Development Work.

Great.

Let's move to the next Scrum event: The Daily Scrum, the

topic of the next lecture.

https://medium.com/@mirkoperkusich/scrum-myth-the-sprint-scope-is-fixed-a3ce4b262eaa

See you there.

70.
Now, let's talk about the Daily Scrum, which, as the name suggests,

is a meeting that occurs daily.

During this meeting, which is timeboxed to 15 minutes, the Developers

get together to talk about their progress toward the Sprint Goal and

to adapt the Sprint Backlog as needed.

It is held every working day at the same time and place.

Why, Mirko?

To reduce complexity.

So, what do we talk about?

Well, most teams have each member to answer three questions.

First, what did I do yesterday that helped the team to meet the Sprint Goal?

Second, what will I do today to help the team meet the Sprint Goal?

And third, do I see any impediments that prevents me or the team

from meeting the Sprint Goal?

Notice that using this three questions to drive the meeting is just an example.

The Developers set how to conduct the meeting.

The important thing is that the meeting focuses on assessing the team's progress

toward the Sprint Goal and produces an actionable plan for the next day of work.

Notice that the Daily Scrum is not a technical problem-solving meeting.

If someone is having a hard time with a task, she should make the

other Developers aware during the meeting and maybe ask for help.

However, it is not that time to discuss the solution to the problem.

Often the Developers meet throughout the day for detailed discussions or to

adapt the rest of the Sprint's work.

Just for you to have a feel about how a Daily Scrum would go, let's

simulate one here really quickly with the assistance of a Scrum board.

For this purpose, let's assume that we have a Scrum Team composed of three

Developers, Michael, John, and Alicia.

And that this is the first Daily Scrum of the Sprint.

Let's also assume that the Developers decided to always run the meeting

using an alphabetical order and the three popular questions that I have

presented earlier in this course.

Since this is the first Daily Scrum of the Sprint, we will assume

that there are no impediments.

Alicia could start by choosing to work on these tasks.

That's why we moved them to the work in progress column and marked it with an

A, her name's initial, just so everybody knows that she's working on these tasks.

John chooses to work on these ones and Michael, on these ones.

Notice that, after the Daily Scrum, they might make a quick

meeting to discuss technical stuff.

Now on the next day, same time and place, they will come together

to run the Daily Scrum again.

Let's assume here that Alicia got done with her tasks.

And chooses to work on this one today.

On the other hand, John got done with this one, but not with this other one,

because he had a technical problem.

Then Michael volunteered to help him right after the meeting.

And what about Michael?

He got done with all his tasks and pulled these other ones.

And this is it.

Great job.

https://medium.com/@mirkoperkusich/a-complete-guide-for-conducting-effective-daily-scrums-a481c853eed0

71..
We are almost getting done!

There are only two more events for you to master: Sprint

Review and Sprint Retrospective.

Now, let's talk about the Sprint Review!

As we have previously discussed, the Sprint Review is held

at the end of each Sprint.

Its goal is to inspect the Increment or any other outcome of the Sprint and, if

needed, adapt the Product Backlog or determine any other future adaptations.

Ideally, for this meeting, you will have the presence of users,

customers, and internal stakeholders.

For Konyu, this could be, for instance, the person in charge of operations or

someone responsible for customer support.

And, it would be awesome to have people representing the target customers,

such as a collector or store owner.

If they can't show up, the Product Owner represents their interests, but it is

essential for them to be there because if they inspect the Increment, they can

give the Scrum Team valuable feedback.

With the collected feedback, the Scrum Team can analyze and

update the Product Backlog.

Further, the progress toward the Product Goal is discussed.

As with all the other Scrum events, the Sprint Review is also time-boxed.

For a one-month Sprint, it is time-boxed to 4 hours.

For shorter Sprints, it is usually shorter.

Now that you have an overview of the Sprint Review, letâ€™s learn more about

how to execute one in the next lecture.

See you there.


72.
Now that you have an overview of Scrum's process to inspect and

adapt the Product let's see how to execute the Sprint Review.

Before getting to the event itself, what happens before the Sprint Review starts?

Well, it all begins with the Developers getting ready for the event.

They need to check which Product Backlog items are done, given the

Definition of Done, and prepare them to be presented during the Sprint Review.

For example, for our case study, let’s assume that our Scrum Board is like this,

with all the Product Backlog Items Done.

The Developers must make the features related to these Product Backlog Items

available to demonstrate them to the stakeholders during the Sprint Review.

For the first Product Backlog Item, this means that the Web page containing

the form for the user to create a new account must be available for

the stakeholders to try to use it.

The second one is concerned with the sign-in.

Thus, the Web page related to signing into the system must be Done.

And the third one is related to recovering a password, which means

that the Web page enabling users to recover their password must be done.

Let's assume that the team has verified that everything is working correctly.

Notice that, in our case study, we are assuming that all the

Product Backlog Items are done.

However, sometimes, it is not the case.

Therefore, the question is, should the undone work be presented

during the Sprint Review?

What do you think?

Pause the video for a minute, answer the question, and come back.

The answer is: No, it shouldn't.

Only the Increment is presented during the Sprint Review, and undone work

must not be part of the Increment.

Having said this, we are good to keep moving.

We're ready for the Sprint Review event.

But, before discussing how the Sprint Review should be held, let's

talk about how it shouldn't be.

What is the Sprint Review not?

The Sprint Review is not a demo meeting.

Even though I said that in Sprint Review events, the Developers present

the Increment to stakeholders, it is not a demo meeting.

“What do you mean, Mirko?” you might ask.

I mean that the Sprint Review is not an opportunity for the Developers to

show progress, give a product update, or sell themselves to the stakeholders.

It is not a formal status meeting.

So, if the team is presenting something with slides, screenshots

of the tools, or something similar, there's something wrong.

You won't have a real Increment inspection.

The customers, the stakeholders, will be inspecting screenshots and

images of something that might be representing the product, which

does not lead to quality feedback.

And second, for the Sprint Review to be valuable, you need stakeholders

that understand the market, maybe even users or customers, as we have

previously discussed, to participate.

If they're not, the team will miss the opportunity to

learn more about the product.

So, what's the point of having a Sprint Review if you use slides

or if the customers are not there?

Given this, what is the Sprint Review about?

The Sprint Review is about transparency and collaboration between the

Scrum Team and key stakeholders.

You have transparency by allowing the stakeholders to use the

Increment whenever possible.

So for Konyu, you would give the URL to the customers.

They will get their laptops, phones, or computers, access the URL,

and then try to use the features.

So, for instance, for the signed up feature, they'll access the Web page

made available by the Developers and try to fill the spaces so they

can experience how the feature is being provided in the product.

They must do this for all the new features developed in the Increment.

If you're working with a mobile app, you give them a smartphone

with the latest version of the app.

Even better, if, for instance, you're creating an Android app

and the stakeholders have Android devices, install the app on their

devices and let them try to use it.

They need to experience the real product.

In summary, we have that the Scrum Team and invited stakeholders participate

in this event, which has as inputs the Increments developed during the Sprint,

the Product Backlog, and market analysis, which is vital to define the next steps.

During the event, the Sprint's outcomes are inspected, progress towards the

Product Goal is discussed, and the Product Backlog might be adjusted.

Thus, the outcome of this event is a direction on what to do next, which

usually means an updated Product Backlog.

And this is it!

You are now ready to answer any questions about this event on your PSM I assessment!

Great job!

In the following lecture, let's test your knowledge with a PSM I Sniper lecture!

See you there!

73.
[EXTRA] More on Sprint Review & Gathering Users Feedback
Hey, how is it going?



Take a look at the following articles to learn more about how to conduct a Sprint Review event and gather feedback from users in Scrum:



- [Scrum.org] Eight things you should do in your Sprint Review

https://www.scrum.org/resources/blog/eight-things-you-should-do-your-sprint-review

- [The Liberators] 7 Powerful Ways To Get Feedback From Users (In Scrum)

https://medium.com/the-liberators/7-powerful-ways-to-get-feedback-from-users-in-scrum-b683d39143ca

I am also sharing the PDF files of the articles in this lecture, in case you have trouble accessing the provided links.



If you have any questions, please, let me know.



Br,

74. 

We have just talked about inspecting and adapting, focusing on the product.

Now, it's time to think about the team, inspecting and adapting the Scrum Team.

The Sprint Retrospective is an opportunity for the Scrum Team to

reflect on their methods and teamwork.

It's about making teams better, continuously improving.

Maybe, your team is having interpersonal issues?

Issues with the quality of the product?

Maybe, the Definition of Done needs to be discussed and adjusted?

Is the team having productivity issues?

Maybe, caused by process issues, such as unproductive Scrum events or the

Sprint length not being appropriate?

These are all example of topics to be discussed during

a Sprint Retrospective event.

As with all Scrum events, the Scrum Master ensures that event

is positive and productive.

The Sprint Retrospective occurs after the Sprint Review, concluding the Sprint.

It is timeboxed to three hours for one-month Sprints.

For shorter Sprints, the event is usually shorter.

In general, the goal is to answer three questions.

What went well during the Sprint?

We want to identify the good stuff and repeat them as much as possible.

What didn't go well?

We want to identify the best stuff too, but just identifying them is not enough.

We need to come up with solutions and improve.

For our case study, let's assume that Konyu's Scrum Team, after inspecting

how the last Sprint went with regards to people, relationship, process,

and tools, came up with these items.

The Scrum Team considered that this stuff went well and these ones didn't.

After discussions, they identified these improvement opportunities.

Finally, the Scrum Team identified the most helpful ones and added

them to the Product Backlog.

You don't need to understand the meaning of each one of these improvements,

but notice that some of them don't require effort from the Scrum Team.

For instance, changing the Daily Scrum to 11h30am, doesnâ€™t require

effort from the Scrum Team.

It is just about, you know, rescheduling, the Daily Scrums.

Conversely, others require effort.

For instance, configuring static code analysis for continuous

integration requires Developers to set up the tools and workflow.

And finally, we are done.

You now know everything you need to know about the Scrum events.

Great job.

75.
[EXTRA] How to conduct a Sprint Retrospective
Hey, how is it going?



Take a look at the following article to learn more about how to conduct a Sprint Retrospective event:



- [Miro] The guide to retrospectives – remote or in person

https://miro.com/guides/retrospectives/

I am also sharing the PDF file of the article in this lecture, in case you have trouble accessing the provided link.



If you have any questions, please, let me know.



Br,



Mirko

Tài nguyên cho bài giảng này

76.
Before going into Scrumban, let’s think about the answer to this

question: which one is better?

Scrum or Kanban?

What do you think?

While Scrum is commonly used to develop products, Kanban is widely applied

to production lines, maintenance management, and other continuous flows.

Given this, which one is the best: Scrum or Kanban?

Asking this is the same thing as asking if it is better to eat

with a fork, knife, or spoon!

It depends on the context and they can be combined!

For example, Scrum.org has a guide explaining how to complement

Scrum with Kanban named “The Kanban Guide for Scrum Teams.”

This guide complements their famous Scrum Guide and is used

as the basis for the Professional Scrum with Kanban certification.

I have attached their Kanban guide as a resource in this lecture.

In case you're interested in getting certified, this course has a bonus

section with instructions, tips, and a practice test for the Professional

Scrum with Kanban assessment.

Now that we have discussed how Scrum and Kanban can be used

together, what is Scrumban?

Scrumban is a hybrid agile development approach that combines

Scrum’s skeleton, with Kanban’s capabilities of optimizing the flow.

In the following lectures, we will see how Scrumban works and

how it uses some of the essential elements of both Kanban and Scrum.

77.

Now, we will discuss Scrumban’s flow for delivering value so that you

have a big picture of how it works.

Before moving on, it is important to notice that Scrumban does not have

an official definition or definitive guides such as Scrum and Kanban.

Thus, what I'm going to present here is a generally accepted definition

of what Scrumban is in the industry.

As you already know, both in Scrum and Kanban, the flow starts

with a list of work to be done, usually, called the backlog.

It is the same in Scrumban.

The difference is that Scrumban has a column named “Ready”,

next to the “Backlog” column.

This column stores work items that originate from the backlog.

And they are the most valuable work at the moment, usually, having more details than

the others about the work requirements.

For example, while in the “Backlog” column, I could have a card only saying

“Auction feature” representing that we need to develop a feature for supporting

auctions on an e-commerce website.

Clearly, the software developers would need much more information about this

whenever they start developing it.

Whenever the card is moved to the “Ready” column, we could add

details to it, as illustrated here.

You don’t need to read or understand the details presented herein.

I just showed you this example to give you a general idea of the

difference between a card sitting on the “Backlog” and “Ready” columns, ok?

Further, there are no prescriptions for the level of detailing required.

It is up to the team to decide.

The only role is that the “Ready” column only has the most important work items.

Now, have you noticed that the “Ready” column has Work in Progress limits?

In this case, the limit is five.

There are three primary reasons for having such limits and

understanding them is essential to better grasp Scrumban’s mindset.

Thus, pay close attention.

The first reason is to avoid wasting time with excessive planning.

In Scrum, we start each Sprint by planning it, which requires the team to select

Product Backlog items to fit the Sprint’s timebox, creating the Sprint Backlog

During the Sprint, the team only works on items from the Sprint Backlog.

In general, Scrum’s Sprint Backlog-based work management requires the team

to estimate the size of the Product Backlog items and, sometimes, break

them down to fit the Sprint.

There are two challenges with this approach.

First, sometimes estimating size is too hard because the requirements

are ambiguous or the team has no idea about development details.

This is usually the case when working with new technologies, for example.

Second, the team might waste time discussing too many Product

Backlog items because not all of them will fit the Sprint Backlog.

Scrumban simplifies this work management strategy by saying that

most effort on estimation is waste.

Thus, it approaches this by adopting Kanban pull-based work management and

limiting the amount of work that the team can focus on, in other words,

limiting the number of cards in the “Ready” column, regardless of their size.

In this example, since we already have five items on the “Ready”

column, the team gives full attention to getting them done, instead of

wasting time planning more items.

The second reason for limiting Work in Progress for “Ready”

items is that it defines the virtual length of an iteration.

In contrast to Scrum, Scrumban doesn’t have timeboxed Sprints

with a predefined length.

In Scrum, if you have a 2-week Sprint, this means that every two weeks the

team stops developing to conduct the Sprint Review, Sprint Retrospective,

and Sprint Planning events.

In other words, there is a fixed cadency for holding such events.

Scrumban doesn’t have timeboxed Sprints or iterations.

However, in general, we would like to have releases or gather feedback from

stakeholders, at most every 2 weeks.

For this purpose, instead of using a 2-weeks timeboxed iteration, we estimate

a Work in Progress limit high enough to keep the team busy for around two weeks.

In this example, I defined the Work in Progress limit as five,

estimating that the team would get done with them in 2 weeks.

The main point here is that we don’t have to select backlog items to get

done in the next two weeks, as we would do with Scrum, we would only

define the Work in Progress limits to guide us on having a two weeks cycle.

In other words, while Scrum is product-oriented,

Scrumban is flow oriented.

It focuses more on flow metrics such as cycle time and throughput.

Notice that if the team misses the estimate and delivers the five items in

13 days or 16 days, it is not an issue.

The team analyzes what happened and tries to optimize the flow for future work.

Further, the team and stakeholders define when to hold the Review and

Retrospective events given their needs.

We will talk more about this later in this course.

What about the Planning events?

Answering this question leads us to the third reason for limiting Work

in Progress in the “Ready” column: support the continuous flow of tasks.

In Scrumban, we don’t hold Planning events with a fixed cadency, as we do in Scrum.

Instead, we have On-demand Planning, only holding them whenever needed.

In practice, we only hold Planning events if a minimum amount

of “Ready” cards is reached.

And, we can define this number based on an expected ideal frequency

for holding Planning events.

For example, here I am assuming that we can get done with 5 items in 2 weeks.

Thus, if we assume that holding Planning events every week is the

ideal frequency, we could define the minimum amount of “Ready” cards as 2.

Thus, in this situation, we would hold a Planning event aiming at pulling

three cards from the “Backlog” column into the “Ready” column.

This is why I say that Scrumban has virtual iterations.

Instead of having timeboxed iterations like Scrum, it is pull-based and

events are only held when needed.

However, as we discussed, we can control the cadency of events by

setting the Work in Progress limits.

We have a big paradigm break with Scrumban and it is OK if you

are still a little bit confused.

Scrumban doesn’t follow Kanban’s continuous flow nor

Scrum’s timeboxed Sprints.

It is a combination of both, Kanban and Scrum in the form of a

pull-based work management approach.

Thus, I recommend that you watch this lecture again to have a better

understanding of Scrumban’s big picture.

Next, move to the following lecture in which we will clarify each of the

key points of Scrumban and I am sure that, by the end of this section, you

will understand Scrumban’s practices.

78.
Since the last lecture had a lot of new information, let’s make a

quick recap highlighting the four main aspects of Scrumban flow.

The first key aspect relates to iterative development.

In Scrum, we have timeboxed Sprints lasting at most one month.

Periodically, we stop developing to plan the next Sprint.

And during the Sprints, we develop Increments focusing on reaching

the Sprint Goal, which is usually product-driven and might include

developing features or managing risks.

In Kanban, we have a continuous flow of requests and delivery

without using Sprints or iterations.

While in Scrum, the Sprint timebox is a way of giving the team focus, Kanban

does that by limiting Work In Progress.

In Scrumban, we have virtual iterations because they are not timeboxed.

However, Scrumban adds a little bit of structure to Kanban’s

continuous flow because it limits the number of "Ready" items.

Thus, in Scrumban, the iteration period is a goal reflecting the

expected cycle time and throughput.

For example, if we define the “Ready” limit as five aiming to

deliver everything in 15 days, we are forecasting that, on average, we need

three days to get done with an item.

Thus, 15 days is the target period of our virtual iteration.

The second key aspect is the iteration backlog.

In Scrumban, the iteration backlog is represented by the “Ready” column, which

has a limit on how many items it can take.

Similarly, Scrum has the Sprint Backlog.

The main difference is that, in Scrum, the Sprint Backlog is reset

after each Sprint, as a Sprint ends and a new Sprint is planned.

In Scrumban, the iteration backlog persists and is only updated as

needed, in other words, whenever the team has space to pull work

from and to the “Ready” column.

Further, since Scrum has timeboxed Sprints, all the Sprint

Backlog items have an implicit deadline: the end of the Sprint.

Scrumban doesn’t focus on the deadlines of the items, but on the flow, in other

words, maintaining adequate average lead time, average cycle time, and throughput.

The third key aspect is about Iteration Planning events.

In contrast to Scrum, where we have Sprint Planning at the beginning of each Sprint,

Scrumban has On-Demand Planning events.

In other words, they don’t automatically happen at the beginning of each

iteration but only when needed.

Scrumban’s Planning event focuses on filling the “Ready” column until it

reaches its Work in Progress limit.

In contrast, with Scrum, we always have to define the Sprint Backlog

starting from scratch, which might require more effort from the team.

The fourth key aspect is consistently having short iterations.

Even though Scrumban’s iterations might last longer than planned

because they are not timeboxed, the objective is to have a frequent

and predictable delivery of value.

As a rule of thumb, you should aim for at most fifteen days

as the iteration’s length.

In summary, Scrumban seeks to reduce the amount of Scrum’s planning

effort by using Kanban’s flow monitoring and control mechanisms.

On the other hand, it complements Kanban by using virtual iterations

to promote feedback loops.

Now that you have the big picture of Scrumban, in the following

lectures, we will go over more details about the main aspects of Scrum and

Kanban used by Scrumban and how they are usually adjusted in practice.

See you in the next lecture!

79.
Scrumban teams use a Kanban board to manage and visualize their work.

As the name implies, the Kanban board arose from Kanban when

Scrum did not even exist.

Still, Scrum teams usually use a board like this to promote transparency and

collaboration between team members.

However, there are two details here.

First, Scrum Teams usually have a simple board with a few columns,

such as this one, since they don't manage the flow in detail.

As a consequence, we have a black box regarding the status of each

work item whenever they have started because, by looking at the board,

we can't see many details about it.

We only know that the item is in progress.

Second, their boards usually don’t have Work in Progress

limits, a Kanban practice.

For this reason, in situations like this, I say that, technically, this is

not a Kanban Board but a Scrum Board.

In contrast, a Kanban Board has Work In Progress limits and

more columns, reflecting the team’s workflow more precisely.

Scrumban teams use a Kanban Board such as this one.

However, there is still something here.

Stop the video for a few seconds and try to figure out why this

Kanban Board doesn’t reflect one used by Scrumban teams.

The problem with this board is that it is missing the “Ready”

column, which represents the Scrumban team’s iteration backlog.

Thus, compared to Scrum, Scrumban’s boards have Work in Progress limits

and, usually, more columns giving the team the necessary information

to monitor and control the flow.

Compared to Kanban, Scrumban’s boards have the “Ready” column

making the iteration backlog visible.

In the next lecture, let us discuss Work in Progress limits.

See you there!

80.
Scrumban seeks

a

continuous flow of value, like Kanban.

Thus, it limits Work in Progress to avoid queues throughout the flow.

It is worth mentioning that some Scrum Teams adopt Kanban practices,

such as limiting Work in Progress, but this is not part of the Scrum

framework and is not mandatory.

Conversely, in Scrumban, we must have Work in Progress limits, especially

for the “Ready” column, since such a limit dictates the team’s

feedback loops, in other words, the virtual iterations’ length.

In the next lecture, let us discuss a Scrum practice adopted by most

Scrumban teams: the Daily Scrum.

See you there!

81.
Now, let us talk about Daily Meetings, called Daily Scrums, in Scrum.

Kanban does not prescribe Daily Meetings, but conducting them is a good practice

because they allow the team to discuss how to maintain a consistent flow.

In Kanban, the meeting takes place around the Kanban board and focuses on

where flow is lacking and what actions the team can take to get it back.

As with Kanban, Scrumban also has flow-based Daily Meetings.

For this purpose, Scrumban teams usually analyze the CFD and flow

metrics such as lead time, cycle time, work item age, and throughput.

As a consequence, while Scrum Teams usually focus a lot on using burndown

charts to forecast the progress of Sprints, Scrumban teams focus on the CFD.

Why?

Because Scrumban teams don’t worry about meeting a Sprint deadline

but about having a consistent flow.

And by having good lead time, cycle time, and throughput, the burndown is

easily predictable and becomes useless.

Notice that Scrumban’s Daily Meetings are very similar to the

ones conducted by Kanban teams whenever they choose to conduct them.

This similarity is expected since both approaches aim to

maintain a consistent flow.

In the following lecture, let us discuss the Review and Retrospective events.

See you there!

82.
Now, let us talk about the Review and Retrospective events.

As you already know, in Scrum, they are held at the end of each Sprint.

And in Kanban, they are not prescribed, but it is good practice

to adopt them as feedback loops.

Scrumban teams, in contrast with Scrum Teams, are free to conduct

these events only when needed.

However, the goals of the events are the same as in Scrum.

For example, a Review meeting can happen whenever there are enough

deliverables for the stakeholders to inspect and give feedback.

However, there are cases in which the stakeholders prefer having a

fixed cadency for the Review meetings because of their busy schedules.

It is up to the Scrumban team and stakeholders to decide

what works best for them.

With Retrospective meetings the same thing, the Scrumban

team decides when to hold them.

In contrast with Scrum, Scrumban teams don’t need to conduct a Retrospective

meeting after each Review meeting.

They can decide only to conduct this meeting whenever they

have enough topics to discuss.

However, I must say that, typically, conducting them with a fixed

cadency and short cycles of at most one month is a good practice.

Otherwise, the team risks not looking for ways to improve efficiency and

productivity, and bad behaviors and inefficient practices might perpetuate.

For this reason, skipping Retrospective meetings can be very dangerous.

In summary, compared to Scrum, Scrumban’s Review and Retrospective

meetings have the same purpose, but Scrumban teams have more flexibility

regarding when to conduct them.

In the following lecture, let us discuss accountabilities in Scrumban.

See you there!

83.
As Kanban, Scrumban does not prescribe accountabilities for the team.

In contrast, recall that Scrum has three accountabilities: Product

owner, Scrum Master, and Developers.

Sometimes Scrumban teams adopt Scrum’s accountabilities; sometimes, they don’t.

For example, some Scrumban teams have a single Product Owner

responsible for managing the Backlog.

Other Scrumban teams prefer not to have a single person as a

Product Owner and divide such accountability among multiple people.

In conclusion, it is up to the team to define how to better organize themselves.

84.

w, that you have a better grasp of Scrumban, let’s compare it with Scrum

and Kanban and discuss when to use it.

We are going to compare Scrum, Kanban, and Scrumban using these factors.

First, in terms of team size, a Scrum Team typically has 10 or fewer

members, while this is undefined for Kanban and Scrumban teams.

However, notice that this is not a rule and that you can scale

Scrum by having multiple Scrum Teams working on the same product.

If you want to learn more about this, take a look at Scrum.org’s Nexus Guide.

In terms of accountabilities, Scrum prescribes three, while Kanban

and Scrumban don’t prescribe any.

However, it is common to use or adapt Scrum’s accountabilities in Scrumban.

While Scrum has Sprints lasting one month or less, Kanban follows a continuous

flow, and Scrumban has virtual iterations aiming to last at most 2 weeks.

Scrum Teams start a Sprint by conducting a Sprint Planning event.

Kanban doesn’t prescribe planning events, while Scrumban has on-demand planning.

One of the goals of Scrum’s Sprint Planning is to select items from the

Product Backlog to the Sprint Backlog.

Thus, in general, the selected items must fit the Sprint, while

Kanban and scrum and Scrumban have work items with unlimited size.

Further, we can conclude that Scrum’s work management is Sprint Backlog-based because

the Sprint Backlog is the single source of work for the team during the Sprint.

Conversely, Kanban and Scrumban have a continuous pull-based system.

As an observation, during an iteration, Scrumban teams only pull

work from the “Ready” column, but they are free to update it whenever

they want without bureaucracy.

This discussion leads us to the next aspect: the board.

In Scrum, the board is reset after each Sprint, since each

Sprint starts from scratch.

Conversely, Kanban and Scrumban have persistent boards.

Some people say that limiting Work in Progress is restricted to Kanban

and Scrumban, but this is not true.

They limit it at the column level, but Scrum also limits it.

By having timeboxed Sprints, in Scrum, the work in progress is

automatically limited by the Sprint Backlog, since it is the team’s only

source of work during the Sprint.

However, it is important to mention that Scrum gives the team the flexibility

to change the scope within the Sprint.

Many people point out that one of Scrum’s disadvantages is that any

change in scope mid-sprint must wait for the next one, but this is not true.

You can change the Sprint Backlog, as long as it doesn’t endanger the Sprint Goal.

However, if the change endangers the Sprint Goal, you should, in

general, wait for the next Sprint.

You also have the option to cancel the Sprint, but this should be only

done if the change is really critical.

Notice that you might still see this as a weak point of Scrum in terms of handling

changes, but there are techniques that you can apply to handle super volatile

environments such as every Sprint Planning, reserving part of the team

capacity, say 20%, to handle unplanned work that might come up during the Sprint.

I have used this before and worked like a charm.

Finally, the last aspect is the Events.

Scrum prescribes that these events must be conducted every

Sprint, with no exceptions.

In contrast, Scrumban teams usually conduct these events too,

but on-demand, and Kanban have no prescriptions about events.

However, it is a good practice to conduct these events in Kanban

for promoting feedback loops.

Now, for us to have a big picture about how Scrum, Kanban, and Scrumban

compare in terms of flexibility, let me use a color code for this table.

Here, I used green for the most flexible approach, red for the least

flexible, and yellow if in-between.

For example, in the first line, I marked everything with green because none of

them have rules regarding the team size; Scrum only suggests having a team of 10

or fewer people, but it is not a rule.

In the third and fourth lines, I marked Scrumban with yellow since

it adds a little bit of structure on top of Kanban by having the “Ready”

column with work-in-progress limits.

As you can see, in general, Scrum is the least flexible and Kanban the most.

This result is expected since Scrum is a more complete framework, with more rules.

However, it is important to notice that Scrum and Kanban have different goals.

Scrum focuses on building the right product within a

context of high uncertainty.

This is why it focuses more on product management strategy practices and

has, for example, Product Owner and the Sprints as a way of building part

of the product to gather feedback and adjust the requirements as needed.

On the other hand, Kanban focuses on optimizing the workflow.

As we already know, these ideas complement each other.

Scrumban complements Kanban with some Scrum ideas and practices.

This is why Scrumban is a way of implementing Kanban.

Conversely, Scrumban removes some of Scrum’s mandatory aspects, and

this is why Scrumban is not Scrum.

Scrumban does this as a way to minimize waste, especially in planning activities.

One situation in which Scrumban, instead of Scrum, is used a lot is when

the team has a hard time estimating the effort for completing work items.

This might be the case when the work item is ambiguous or very complex.

An example is developing an innovative machine learning algorithm for

recognizing objects from images.

This task has lots of uncertainty regarding gathering the dataset, cleaning

the data, building the models, defining hypothesis, testing them, and so on.

Thus, it might the case that estimating work items and planning Sprints ends

up being a waste of time because the estimates will be very imprecise

and the team might finish a sequence of Sprints without being able to

get any Product Backlog item done.

In summary, we saw that Scrumban makes Scrum more flexible

while adding structure to Kanban.

However, adopting it requires caution and we will discuss why in the next lecture!

See you there!

85.
We discussed in the past lecture, Scrumban makes Scrum lighter by removing

some of its aspects, such as the iterations’ timebox, and making the

accountabilities and events more flexible.

However, adopting Scrumban can be dangerous if the organization and

team don’t have enough maturity with Agile, Scrum, Kanban, and Lean.

There is an old Japanese philosophy called Shu-Ha-Ri.

It says that first, you must follow the rules;

Then, after you master them, you can analyze how well the rules

apply to your context, and break them for having a better fit.

Finally, with enough maturity, you create new traditions and ways of doing things.

When you are following Scrum rules, in general, you are in the SHU stage.

Scrumban is HA, which means that is not for rookies.

Unfortunately, I see many people migrating from Scrum to Scrumban without

understanding the why’s behind Scrum.

For example, some teams don’t hold Sprint Retrospective every Sprint

because don’t see the value in doing so.

However, the problem is that usually that they don’t know how to conduct

effective Sprint Retrospective events or the reason for them to exist!

Other organizations prefer to have multiple people fulfilling the

Product Owner accountability, breaking Scrum’s rule and justifying that

having a single person for doing the PO’s job is too complicated.

You shouldn't be removing Scrum’s rules for them being

hard or complicated to follow!

You should only migrate from SHU to HA, from Scrum to Scrumban, if you dominate

Scrum, Kanban, Agile and Lean values, principles, and practices by heart.

Otherwise, moving to Scrumban will be cutting your own throat.

Thus, my final message is to be conscious of where you are.

If you don’t master Scrum, Kanban, Agile, and Lean stick to the basics.

You are still at the SHU level.

Stick with Scrum’s rules.

Whenever you have enough experience and knowledge to consider yourself at

the HA level, consider if moving to Scrumban or making other adaptations

to Scrum makes sense or not.
