To have a deeper understanding of Scrum's purposes and mechanics, it is crucial to

understand its roots in the Agile mindset.

Further, it is essential to comprehend Agile's older brother, the traditional

way of working, also known as waterfall.

Given this, this lecture focuses on giving you a better perspective

of the Agile mindset and how it compares to the waterfall approach.

Let's make things visual.

First, let me start here by drawing the X-axis for time.

And the Y-axis is going to be for the product vision, which here means

the product description, including its requirements and features.

Now, let's assume that right here is our initial vision.

The waterfall approach is also known as traditional, proactive, predictive,

plan-driven, and disciplined.

Why?

Because in waterfall, we aim to develop the perfect plan and then follow it.

I like to compare it with the way we work with a cannon.

Say that you have a target and need to hit it with a cannon.

What do you do?

You aim for the target and

"boom" take the shot.

"Aiming for it" in the business world usually means having an approved project

plan or a signed contract specifying what will be done, when, and for how much.

Further, "shooting" means following the plan.

Let's represent these concepts in our model.

Let's assume that this is a development cycle's starting point and that the

plan is represented by this arrow pointing to our initial vision.

Given that we have a plan, what do we do in waterfall?

We execute it until the end.

And, after a period, we will reach our initial vision.

Consequently, if we assume that we got the visual right at first and

have a fixed target, we are good to go if we can develop the perfect plan.

However, what if we can't get the vision right at first?

Let's go back to the cannon.

What if the environment changes?

If the wind starts blowing stronger?

Or an obstacle gets in the way?

Or if we have a moving target, like a car?

Let's represent such uncertainty by assuming that this is our correct

vision, far from our initial one.

Even though we were initially aiming correctly, we would miss the target!

The same thing might happen in the business world, especially when

working with new technologies and markets; the correct vision is,

usually, far from our initial one.

For this reason, waterfall can lead you to a useless product whenever

there is lots of uncertainty regarding what to build and how to build it.

Notice that I am exaggerating here slightly when comparing the waterfall

approach with shooting a cannonball.

Theoretically, in waterfall, we could change the initial plan, but, in practice,

we would not move the vision much because of the associated cost and bureaucracy.

As a result, two things might happen.

First, the implemented changes might not be enough to deliver the correct vision

or something sufficiently close to it.

Or, second, we might at some point get to the correct vision, but it will

be so late that it might be useless.

Given this, what is the alternative to waterfall?

Here is where Agile, also known as an adaptive approach, comes in.

In Agile, we assume that we initially don't know the target.

We acknowledge that we cannot come up with a perfect plan.

The idea is to deliver something close to the customer's needs in

short cycles, given what we know now and learn with experience.

Thus, here, we would point to our initial vision

and then make a rapid release to the customers or present

the product to stakeholders.

Notice that this release contains only a fraction of our current product vision!

After experiencing the result, the customers, stakeholders, and the

team become more informed and make a better decision about the product,

which might be adjusting our product vision.

At this point, you might be asking yourself, "But, Mirko, in practice,

why do such adjustments happen?"

There are many possible causes.

The first is our team learning more about the technologies being used.

The second is changes in the market or available technologies, for instance,

an update on the tools we are using.

A third is poor early and customer analysis.

And finally, there's the phenomenon popularly known as "IKIWISI", which

means "I know it when I see it".

For some types of products, especially the more innovative ones.

it is useless to ask potential customers if they will like the product or use it.

Why?

Because if the product is so innovative, they won't be able to really grasp

how they could interact with it.

Or sometimes, it is just too hard to explain the product to them

because it is so intangible, which is frequent with software products.

Given this, the users just know if the product is valuable when they see it.

In these scenarios, the only way to get meaningful validation from the

customers is to show them something usable and have them use it.

Right here, after they have analyzed or inspected our deliverable, we get

feedback from them and learn more about what needs to be delivered.

As I previously said, this might cause us to adapt our vision

and, consequently, our plan.

And then, what we do next?

We deliver a new version, get our customers to use it, analyze the feedback

and adjust again; hopefully getting closer and closer to the correct vision.

And we keep doing this until we reach the correct vision.

Given this, what is agility?

Agility, or being agile, means responding to change.

Now, let's do a quick review of what we covered in this video.

At this point, you know that waterfall is better suited for endeavors in

which we know what to do, what to deliver early in the development cycle.

Well-known examples are constructing a bridge

or a building because the scope, or the work to be done, is

not expected to change much.

Conversely, Agile is best suited for complex environments, where changes

are natural and should not be avoided because adapting is the way to lead

us to the desired outcomes, in other words, the correct product vision.

This scenario is frequent for developing innovative or complex products.

Further, you know that Scrum is an Agile framework for guiding changes.

Great job!

In industry, many people confuse being agile, rapid and lean.

In the following lecture, we will discuss how these concepts relate to

each other, giving you solid foundations for what is to come in this course.

See you there.