Phiên âm
In the previous lecture, you learned about the distinctions

between agile and waterfall and that Scrum is an agile framework.

In this lecture, we will deepen our discussion about the agile mindset by

discussing three essential concepts: being agile, rapid, and lean.

Let's start by reflecting on this question: is being agile the same

thing as being rapid or fast?

Pause the video for one minute and try to come up with an answer.

The answer is: no!

Let me show you how the concepts relate to each other by going back to our model.

Again, let's assumed that we are here.

Being rapid or fast means getting to the vision fast.

Right here, when we were pointing to our initial vision, what does it

mean if we ultimately reach it fast?

Is this valuable?

Well, not really, because we're still far away from our correct vision.

This is considered waste.

Thus, only being rapid is not enough.

The difference between a rapid and the traditional waterfall approach is that

the rapid one delivers waste faster.

However, can you be agile without being rapid?

Let's assume that you want to be agile and respond to changes, but you are slow.

What is the outcome?

Well, it sounds like the waterfall approach.

For achieving agility, you must be rapid.

Think about rapid and Agile as a difference between a bullet and a Leopard.

A bullet is rapid, but it can't adapt along the way.

A Leopard, on the other hand, is rapid but can quickly adjust

to the environment if needed.

The bullet is not Agile, but the Leopard is; the Leopard is rapid and agile.

I hope that, after this lecture, you won't confuse the concepts of Agile and rapid.

Let's wrap up this lecture by discussing a final concept.

Agility is more related to getting to the correct product, but we need to get

there efficiently by reducing the waste.

Reducing waste is what is widely known as being Lean.

In the agile approach, we produce waste whenever we work on anything not

part of the correct product vision.

Thus, notice that the value of agile follows from it being capable of

making the necessary adjustments with as minimal waste as possible.

Thus, it follows that you have also got to be Lean for you to

succeed with Agile and Scrum.

The key takeaway from this lecture is that succeeding with Agile and

Scrum is greatly dependent on your capabilities of being both: Lean and

rapid, because you have got to get to the correct vision as fast as possible,

wasting as few resources as possible.