At this point, you know that Scrum is a mechanism to guide changes.

However, is it a process?

A methodology?

A method??

I hear many people claiming that Scrum is a methodology or process, but by

doing so they're missing a key aspect of Scrum, which is its role as a means

for the team to define its own processes and methods to address complex problems.

Now, it is time for you to take a step forward and understand why

Scrum is considered a framework.

Let's model the world of Scrum as a subway system.

Here, we have Scrum and some of its concepts and practices.

And here we have practices from many knowledge areas that can be used to

complement Scrum depending or the context.

the bedding

Here, paths with different colors means that they are part

of different knowledge areas.

As previously discussed, the pink line represents Scrum official practices,

according to the Scrum Guide.

This green line represents Product management practices.

Dark orange represents Lean practices, and so on.

So, here, for instance, we see Product Backlog and Product Goal,

practices that are part of the Scrum framework to manage products.

That's why they belong to the Scrum line and are closely connected

to the Product Management line.

An example of completing Scrum is describing Product Backlog items

using the User Story notation.

Now, check this out.

Developing software without any DevOps, testing, or design

activity is a very risky endeavor, and I wouldn't recommend it.

Now, how many DevOps, testing, or design activities are part of Scrum?

Zero.

Yep, Scrum does not prescribe how to version, deploy,

design or test your software.

Does it mean that you don't have to do any of these activities?

Of course not.

For this reason, Scrum is defined as a framework.

Scrum gives you the strategy; the what backed by the whys.

Still, you, the user, must determine the hows, the tactics, making sure

that you conform to the rules of Scrum to avoid covering problems

and limiting the benefits of Scrum.

You might be wondering: "Why do we need to define how to adopt Scrum?".

Because each product, organizational culture, technology,

and so on are different!

And defining the how is very context-sensitive.

Trying to make a general-purpose solution is doomed to failure.

That is why Scrum doesn't even try to go there.

However, don't get me wrong.

Scrum is a potent tool for your toolbox, and, in this course, I will equip you

with the necessary skills to apply Scrum for real, being aware of its boundaries

and where you and your team will need to step up and make decisions to complement

the framework to suit your needs.

The key takeaway from our discussion here is that to use Scrum successfully,

depending on your domain, you must complement it with other

processes, methods and techniques.

Again, Scrum is a framework, but a very powerful and useful one.