Let's talk about the Product Owner.

The PO maximizes the value delivery chain.

In other words, he or she is accountable for maximizing the value of the

product resulting from the Scrum Team.

Think about what I just said for a little bit.

Do you agree?

Or is this a very radical view?

If you agree with me, you might agree that the PO can be seen as the optimization

entity with the power of making the team rapidly deliver the desired product

or, in the worst case, make it run in circles or never release something useful.

Now you might ask.

Mirko, assuming that you are right, how does the PO do that?

By managing the Product Backlog within the Scrum Framework.

It all starts with developing and explicitly communicating the Product

Goal, which is the long-term objective for the Scrum Team.

Why is having the Product Goal important?

To answer that, let's refer to a classic story, Alice in Wonderland.

One day, Alice came to a fork in the road and saw a Cheshire cat in a tree.

"Which road do I take?"

she asked.

His response was a question: "Where do you want to go?"

"I don't know," Alice answered.

"Then,", said the cat, "it doesn't matter."

See?

Giving the Scrum Team a goal to fulfill gives it a sense of purpose,

helping it to make better decisions.

We will talk more about the Product Goal and more details on how the

Product Backlog is managed by the Product Owner later in this course.

For now, let's have an overview of how the Product Owner maximizes the value

of the work performed by the Scrum Team.

It all starts with some business people with a lot of ideas for a product.

Therefore, here we have the business side.

For instance, let's consider the following problem.

Japan is a country with a very strong culture, producing goods in

several domains, such as fashion, cooking, games and collectibles.

There are several online stores in Japan, but some of them don't ship abroad or

have all the information in Japanese, making the life of foreigners very hard.

A particular website that brings the attention of many buyers from

the other countries is Yahoo!

Auctions Japan.

But as I said, it only sells to people that live in Japan.

So, how can we provide a service for people that live

abroad to buy stuff in Japan?

A solution is to build a proxy service such as a website, which is connected

to Yahoo and that could serve as an interface for people to buy in Yahoo.

You might visualize that there are several features that this website should have,

such as searching for a product, buying, a shopping cart, payments, and so on.

At this point, you have a better understanding of what

happens on the business side.

On the other end, we have the Developers, who transform the ideas into value,

in other words, usable products.

But where is the PO?

The PO is right here.

So, in general, the PO's job is to analyze the ideas from the

business people and transform them into requests for the Developers.

The list of requests is what we call the Product Backlog.

The challenge is that the ideas come up way faster than their development.

Therefore, the Product Owner is responsible to consider inputs

from the business and technical people and define a sequence in

which the requests are fulfilled.

Such as sequence must maximize the value delivered by the Developers,

satisfying business needs.

For this purpose, the most important requests must be

fulfilled earlier in time.

In other words, they must come first and are placed on the

top of the Product Backlog.

Got it?

An important point to keep in mind is that the Product Owner is not a bridge

between development and business.

They can talk to each other if needed, but the business people cannot interrupt

or try to command the Developers.

And, who is here to make sure that all this works efficiently?

The Scrum Master.

As we saw, the Product Owner maximizes the value delivery chain.

Now, since business ideas are created faster than they can be developed, do

you think the Product Owner needs to act like a filter rejecting or accepting

requests from the business stakeholders?

No, definitely not.

The Product Owner just needs to make sure that the requests are ordered correctly.

Having the most important ones come first.

This is part of what we call Product Backlog management.

We will talk about how the Product Owner manages the Product Backlog later.

Now, let's move to the next lecture!