Now, let's talk about the Developers.

They are committed to creating any aspect of a usable Increment each Sprint.

In other words, they transform the ideas reflected in the Product Backlog

into something usable and valuable.

In Scrum, the Developers are cross-functional.

In other words, the sum of the skills of all the Developers

must be enough to deliver all the aspects of a usable product.

Notice that individuals might have a specialized area of focus,

such as development or testing.

However, there are no sub-teams or hierarchies, and they all share the

accountability for planning their work and delivering high quality outcomes.

This is very important.

In Scrum, if you create any aspect of an Increment, you are a Developer.

The goal of this characteristic is to create unity.

Even though individuals might have specialized skills or areas of

focus, the accountability regarding creating usable products belongs

to the Developers as a whole.

There is no individual failure or success.

Again, the focus is on the team as a whole.

Additionally, the Developers, as the entire Scrum Team, self-manage.

They collaborate to solve team problems focusing on team goals and they

define who does what, when and how.

No one tells them how to do their work.

Furthermore, to promote self-management, it is necessary

to have an alignment between the Developers and the business people.

The Product Owner has a pivotal role here by being an effective member

of the Scrum Team and working closely with the Developers..

However, having alignment with the Product Owner is not enough, the

Developers must also have autonomy in deciding on what to work on.

For this purpose, during Sprint Planning, through discussions with the Product

Owner, the Developers select the Product Backlog items for the Sprint.

In other words, the Product Owner does not tell the Developers what to do.

There is no command and control in Scrum.

So, here in this cartoon, this is what we want.

The PO frames a business problem.

"We need to cross the river."

The Developers figure out how to do it.

Solving problems, making decisions.

This is what motivates knowledge workers: the Developers.

If you take it from them, performance goes down.

Creativity is hindered.

You don't want that on complex products.

It's a no-no.

At this point, we have discussed that the Developers are

cross-functional and self-managed.

Given this, do you think that the Developers should be

generalists or specialists?

Now is the time that you should pause the video and think about it for a little bit.

Let us start answering this question by analyzing the

scenario of having specialists.

One of the main reasons for the lack of cohesion on the Scrum

Team is the lack of redundancy.

In other words, lack of having multiple team members with similar skills.

Why is it important?

Because you want the team members to give each other feedback,

assist others in tasks, or complete tasks started by others.

If each person only works on part of the problem, you won't really have

a team, but just a group of people.

Therefore, you can't really have a team composed only of specialists.

What about generalists?

Well, they know a little about a lot of stuff.

It would be okay if we were working with simple stuff, but for

complex products is not enough.

So what to do?

You need a mix of both.

You need people that are specialized in whatever skills or technology

you need for the product.

But at least some of them must be open to moving around the system

or problem at hand more freely, giving the team the flexibility

it needs to promote good teamwork.

For instance, I once worked on a project in which we had

two major fields of knowledge.

We had web development and Android.

So the team was composed of eight guys.

One of them is one of the best Android Developers out there, and our

project was really, really complex.

So, what happened?

This guy only worked with Android stuff.

We also had two guys who were our experts in web development.

So they only worked with web development, but the other

five guys worked on both ends.

Thus of course, we didn't have full redundancy, but the team had enough

flexibility to make collaboration work, and this project, even though it was in

a very complex domain, was successful.

Notice that this is not a rule.

The Scrum Guide does not give any recommendations or rules on

how to select your Developers.

I am just giving you an example here to help you understand the concepts better.

The best solution is very context-sensitive.

Great!

We are done with the Developers.

In the following lecture, you will learn more about the Scrum Master.

See you there.