Now, let's talk about the Scrum Master.

The Scrum Master wears two hats, serving the organization and Scrum Teams.

She helps those outside the Scrum Team interact positively with the team.

She's accountable for the Scrum Team's effectiveness and serves it to improve

its practices within the Scrum framework.

For instance, she assists the PO on how to manage the Product

Backlog to maximize value.

Further, she also coaches the Scrum Team on how to self-manage and

deliver done and valuable Increments.

Therefore, we can conclude that the Scrum Master is accountable for establishing

Scrum, as defined in the Scrum Guide.

She does this by helping everyone understand Scrum theory,

practices, rules, and values.

She also causes the removal of impediments.

An impediment is anything that might hinder the team's productivity.

Many teams register them in an impediment list.

Here we have some common examples of impediments.

Let me share a real story with you.

I used to work as a Scrum Master for a team that worked with a smartwatch

for a very famous brand; we were trying to collect data using the smartwatch

sensors to process them later.

For this purpose, the Developers from my team followed the provided

Developer manuals, but it didn't work.

So they came to me.

After reviewing the document with them and checking what they had done, we concluded

that something weird was happening.

I knew people who worked directly with the smartwatches manufacturer;

given this, we were able to talk with people from the inside.

After that, it came to our knowledge that they had a bug.

However, they showed us a workaround for the problem, which our team implemented.

This story is an example of the Developers asking the Scrum Master for help by

raising any impediment and the Scrum Master doing whatever he can to solve it.

But, Mirko, when are impediments raised?

They can be raised anytime.

But, usually, this is done during the Daily Scrums.

And finally, we have that the Scrum Master is responsible for leading

and facilitating Scrum adoption.

She ensures that Scrum is understood by the entire organization, going

from planning Scrum implementation within the organization as a whole and

facilitating meetings if necessary.

Given this, in summary, the Scrum Master is a true leader who serves the

Scrum Team and the larger organization.

https://medium.com/@mirkoperkusich/who-is-responsible-for-quality-in-the-scrum-team-78b0070cc2dd