Our case study will be about , Konyu, a service to buy

products in Japanese stores.

Let's start by taking a look at its main features.

Just so you are familiarized with the system.

Here we have some content.

So we need to develop content management system features.

Here we can change the language and currency.

And over here we have a search box.

Let's make a search for, for instance, Nintendo.

Okay.

So here we have a list of products.

Let's order them by the ones with most bids, since we are

talking about auctions here.

Now it's ordered.

Notice that the items shown here are actually items from Yahoo Auction Japan.

Konyu is just a proxy.

Now let's find a product to bid, just to demonstrate how it works.

I'm not actually going to bid.

Let's take this one.

It already has 122 bids.

So here we have the images for the product, current price

number of bids, time remaining.

The most important feature here is the bid now, so we can click on bid

now, but now notice that you can't bid because you're not authenticated.

So you need to sign up or log into the system.

I'm going to log in here really fast.

Just so we take a look at the user's homepage.

Okay.

So what do we get here?

First, over here, we have the amount of money that I have on my wallet.

So to buy products in Konyu, you need to add money to your wallet and

then that money will be available for you to bid on Yahoo products.

An extra feature that we have here is the add to watch list.

So if I click here, the product is added to my watch list.

What does it mean?

It means that o nce this auction is near to its end, I'm going to

receive an email just to remind me.

Now, let's take a look at my homepage.

Over here, we can see the auctions that are running, which means if I bid in

a product, I can see it status here.

If I'm winning or losing here, we have the watch list.

I've just added this item to my watch list.

And down here, we have the auctions that I've won.

After I win in auction, the product will take a few days and will be available

for me to order a shipment to my country.

So I can go over here and order a shipment.

And over here I can select the available products, select the shipping

service and send it to my place.

So there are other features, but this is enough.

Now you have a great overview of Konyu and we are ready to roll.