Welcome!

And.

Now let's define the product goal for our case study.

Before talking about the product goal itself, let's recap what the

Scrum Guide says about a product.

A product is a vehicle to deliver value.

Therefore, the Scrum Team must be aware that the product itself is not important.

What matters is its benefits.

What matters is having happy customers or users, having people happy and willing to

use and even pay for the product, if the intention is to profit directly from it.

The product has a clear boundary, known stakeholders, and

well-defined users or customers.

Such information is usually part of a product vision.

As discussed in the last lecture, having a product vision is not

a Scrum rule and the scrum Guide doesn't even mention it anymore.

However, I will show you a quick example here for Konyu, because I think that

it will be helpful for you to better understand what is a product goal.

What we see here is a product vision defined for Konyu using the product vision

board made available by Roman Pichler.

As you can see, it has five sections.

In the first one, we have the vision statement, which describes

the product's purpose and impact.

For Konyu is: "enable customers worldwide to buy in Japan with ease and low-cost".

The target group characterizes the market and lists the target customers and users.

For Konyu, we have four customers.

Collectors and store owners and for the internal users, customer support operator

and marketing in the third section needs, we have the problems that the product

addresses, the target customers pains for . We have that the current services

to buy in Japan are complex expensive or of low quality and a collector

loses a lot of time mining for items.

This is mostly targeting collectors, that purchases items on Japan's auctions.

Now the product section lists information about envision product

itself for quantity we have, well, we need a web app, a mobile app.

It should be easy and safe.

Real-time bidding, manage store orders, schedule bid, recommend auctions.

These are the most important features that this product should have.

And last but not least we have the business goals, which lists the

benefits for the organization itself .For Konyu, one goal is to reduce

the cost, to sell Japanese products.

Further, since that company was previously an e-commerce store that targeted mostly

Brazilian customers, it envisions Konyu as an opportunity to expand from selling

only to Brazil to sell worldwide, using a business similar to drop shipping.

As you might have noticed, it seemed like a lot of stuff to be done.

So the product vision, in this case, it's kind of like a moonshot.

It can be too much to only have the product vision as the target, not

helping the scrum team to stay focused.

However, before moving on, let's see what the scrum guide

says about the Product Goal.

It says that the product goal describes the future state of the product,

which can serve as a target for the scrum team to plan against this.

The Scrum Guide does not really define many restrictions of what

makes a useful, a good product goal.

According to it.

This could be the product goal.

And depending on the context, this could be okay.

The scrum guide does not prescribe how you should define a product goal,

because it is very context sensitive.

However, to increase our understanding, let me show you how we could go a step

further and to find a better, more attainable and measurable Product Goal..

First, let me just put here the product vision for Konyu.

It is pretty small, but you don't have to read it.

It's the same information that we had before.

Okay.

So having an initial target is good.

It is our first step.

What now?

Well, where are we at?

Let's assume here that no versions of Konyu have been released yet.

Given this what could be the first strategical product goal to be

pursued before answering this?

What are common for the goals?

How do organizations defined them here?

We have a list of possibilities.

Acquiring customers, retaining customers, increasing engagement, activating users,

generating revenue and reducing cost.

However is , for instance, just saying that the product goal

is acquiring customers enough?

I don't think so.

If you acquire one customer, do you satisfy the product goal or do you need 2?

10?

100?.

Can the customer be from friends and family?

If my mom creates an account, do I meet the product goal?

I think you got my point here.

It is a good practice to add more information to the Product Goal.

For instance, let's try to come up with a target date, the goal to be achieved.

The main features; between three and five is okay.

And the metrics to verify if we have achieved the product goal . For the date,

let's say here six months . For the goal, let's say acquire 20 customers from three

countries, making at least one purchase.

For the features, we have sign up and sign in, product search, auction

bidding, and international shipment.

In this case, the metrics are pretty straightforward because

our goal was very specific.

So we don't even need to fill it up.

With the Product Goal defined, the Scrum Team has now a more realistic, attainable

and concrete goal to pursuit in its role to fulfill the product vision.

Now who comes up with the product goal, the product owner is accountable, but

a good product owner will involve the entire scrum team and key stakeholders

to increase transparency and buy in.

In the next lecture, let's talk about the product backlog, which is what

describes this part of the product goal.

I'll see you there.