Let us now talk about the Product Backlog.

The Product Backlog is an ordered emergent list of what is needed

to improve the product, including features enhancement, fixes, and so on.

It is ordered because , typically, the Product Owner places, the

most important stuff on its top.

It is emergent because in contrast to traditional, waterfall approaches,

the Product Backlog follows what we call Just-In-Time requirements.

As we have previously discussed, in a traditional approach, we aim

to detail all the work upfront.

In Scrum, we only get just enough items ready for the upcoming sprint.

For example, this is a list of Product Backlog items for Konyu.

Notice that these descriptions are not detailed enough for the

Developers to know what to develop.

Further, some of these items seem too large to be developed in one sprint.

For example, developing a recommender system in one month

does not seem to be feasible.

Thus, we can conclude that none of these items are ready.

We usually call these short descriptions of work to be done Epics and this

is usually what we have on the first version of the Product Backlog: only

short reminders of the work to be done.

Now, take a look at this Product Backlog item.

It is described using a notation called User Story, where we describe

a product capability, such as a feature or requirement in terms of the

expectations of the product's users.

If we are using physical cards to register the Product Backlog items, we would

have the front of the card describing the type of user and her desires.

In this example, the user is a buyer who wants to bid in real-

time on Yahoo Auction Japan.

The back of the card would have the acceptance criteria, which is a list

detailing the expected behavior of the product, giving the Developers enough

information to know what to develop.

Notice that such information can also be registered for the Product Backlog

items using a digital tool, such as JIRA, but going over such tools

is out of our scope in this course.

In Scrum, typically, we want only the top Product Backlog items to be

described with this level of detail.

Why?

Because we expect to learn along the way and don't want to waste time describing

Product Backlog items with high chances of changing or being discarded,

Thus, at this point, you know that the top Product Backlog items

are usually more important and detailed than the bottom ones.

Further, we also want the top Product Backlog items to be

small enough to fit a Sprint.

For example, let's consider this to be our current Product Backlog.

By looking at the top item, “Register and Authentication,” it

seems unfeasible to develop all the features related to it in one Sprint.

Thus, the Scrum Team could break it down into 7 User Stories, as shown here.

After breaking down the Product Backlog item, we would re-order

the Product Backlog, as shown here.

The items marked in orange are the new, smaller items.

Notice that they have different importance since we have a few of

them on the top and a few on the bottom of the Product Backlog.

This shows the importance of breaking down the Product Backlog items to be small

enough to separate the important from the not-so-important aspects of each item.

In general, a healthy Product Backlog looks like this only having a small

part ready for Sprint, meaning that they are detailed enough for

the Developers to know what to do and small enough to fit a Sprint.

We call this act of further prescribing and breaking down Product Backlog

items, the Product Backlog refinement,

Product Backlog refinement can be done at the beginning of Sprint Planning,

the end of Sprint Review, or any time during the Sprint, typically, in

Product Backlog refinement sessions.

Notice that we could add more details to the Product Backlog items,

including estimates and business value.

Discussing this is out of the scope of this course, but I have

added articles about these topics as a resource in this lecture.

If you have questions, please let me know.

In this lecture, you had an overview of what is a product

backlog and how it is managed.

In other words, you learned about the input, the single

source of work of the Scrum Team.

In the following lecture, we will discuss the Increments, which are

the outputs of the Scrum Team.

See you there!