Let's now talk about the next Scrum artifact, the Increment.

You already know that the Increment is the outcome of a Sprint.

But, what is an Increment?

An Increment is a vertical delivery.

"But, wait, Mirko, what do you mean by a vertical delivery?"

It is better to use images than words to answer this question.

For this purpose, let’s use the famous Mona Lisa painting by Leonardo da

Vinci as an example of a product.

First, let's visualize what a horizontal delivery strategy would look like,

resulting from an iterative workflow.

As you can see, we only start to see colors in the second

version of the painting.

On the other hand, with an incremental workflow, we would

have something like this.

As you can see, an Increment is a vertical delivery, having all

the layers of part of the Product.

Here, in the first version of the painting, we had

part of it completely done.

To compare both delivery methods, iterative and incremental, take

a look at their first step.

For the iterative method, we know that we will have a woman, but

there are no details regarding her skin color, eye color, and so on.

For the incremental method, we have part of the painting good to go,

with all the details and colors.

Scrum is both iterative and incremental.

Thus, it is something like this.

Starting here, you can see that we have vertical deliverables, but we also defined

the main foundations of our vision.

In the software world, we can use this analogy to mean that we

would have, early in the product development stages, a vision of the

product’s architecture and features.

In Scrum, each Sprint must, ideally, have usable features ready to be released.

Additionally, the system's architecture should be somewhat

ready to handle new features enabling us to fulfill the product vision.

For other areas, such as architecture, engineering, product design, and so on

the Increment might be models representing how the actual product is going to look.

Nowadays, there are several cool technologies that can make Increments even

better for getting customer feedback, such as printing 3d models for a new shoe, or

you can use virtual reality or augmented reality for interior design projects.

If you're working with a product that involves developing hardware, such as

robotics, it might be unfeasible to produce the hardware parts every Sprint.

For example, you can't produce a part of an autonomous vehicle, every Sprint.

However, you can develop prototypes based on tools such as

Arduino or Raspberry Pi boards.

The important thing is that the Increment needs to give users and stakeholders an

authentic experience of using the product.

Why?

Because the Increment is the compass of any Scrum initiative.

It is what guides the entire effort.

If the stakeholders don't have something concrete to use and evaluate, they

won't be able to give quality feedback to the Scrum Team and all the other

aspect of Scrum become useless.

It would be like the Scrum Team getting blind.

Never forget this.

When working with complex problems, asking users what

they want is usually not enough.

They only know what they want when they see it and use it!

In the following lecture, let's complement our discussion about the Increment

by going over the Definition of Done.

See you there.