The Definition of Done is defined by the Scrum Team and is a set

of criteria that increases the alignment and shared understanding

of the expected deliverables.

It explains to everyone involved what Done means by describing the state

of the Increment when it meets the quality measures for the product.

For instance, let's consider the case of organizing your closet.

For some people, this closet is well organized.

So, if the outcome of the task "organize the closet" is this,

they would consider it to be done.

For others, a well organized closet is like this, where you would have

nothing on the floor, the types of clothing and shoes organized by type

and color, and everything symmetric.

For them, this is not done; while this is done.

In Scrum, the Definition of Done can be seen as a gate.

Whenever it is fulfilled, the work is done.

Otherwise, it is not done.

It is composed of criteria, which might include quality assurance tasks, such

as having someone else review the work done by another person or quality metrics

thresholds that must be fulfilled.

It might also include aspects related to architecture and nonfunctional

requirements, process management, configuration management, and so on.

For instance, suppose that you are an architect and have the given task:

“Design the 2D layout of a house”.

For example, if I am your client and email you asking, "Hey, are

you done with the house design?",

And you say, yes, I'm going to think you have a PDF file ready for me.

Conversely, you might think that an AutoCAD file is enough for

the task to be considered done.

Do you see, in this example, there is no shared understanding

regarding the deliverable.

In this example, you need to consider some questions for defining the Done criteria.

Is it done if you design the house on AutoCAD and save

it locally on your computer?

Or do you need to share it on a specific folder on Dropbox, for instance?

Can you name the file the way you want, or do you need to follow a pattern?

Do you need to export the file into a specific file type?

Can you send the AutoCAD file to your client or do you need to send the PDF?

This set of criteria is simple but very important to give you factual information

about your client's expectations

In Scrum, depending on your context, you may define a done criteria for each

important milestone that you might have.

You could describe when technical tasks, Product Backlog items,

releases, or projects are done.

It all depends on your context.

For instance, sometimes working with government agencies require

you to have lots of documents, characterizing a deliverable as done

. In this case, producing and updating such documents must be part of

the team's Definition of Done.

Let's see what I have defined for Konyu.

I'm not going to get into details here, but as you can see, I have different

types of criteria, including quality, process and configuration management.

Further.

I have added targets for the quality aspects, such as having

zero critical or major defects open.

The most important takeaway from this lecture is that the

Definition of Done is the only Scrum practice focusing on quality.

Unfortunately, many people neglect the Definition of Done and get

to the Flaccid Scrum problem when a team starts with a very high

velocity, but loses it with time.

Why is the team losing velocity?

Because probably they're producing a low-quality product and when you start

working with low-quality stuff, the team will lose velocity at some point.

So, my word of caution here is: Don't neglect the Definition of Done.

As previously discussed, the Increment is what guides the Scrum Team in achieving

and adjusting the Product Vision because it enables feedback to be gathered.

The Definition of Done assures that the feedback received is based on something

concrete and gives the necessary balance for the team to stay productive over time.

Before moving on, let me address a point many people get confused about

Please, don't mix the concepts of the Definition of Done and a

User Story’s Acceptance Criteria.

The Acceptance Criteria are specific to a single User Story.

Conversely, the Definition of Done englobes all of them.

For instance, for a web app, one Definition of Done criteria

could be that the pages must load in less than one second, given

a decent internet connection.

All increments must satisfy this criterion, independent of the

Product Backlog items involved.

Now, we are done talking about the Definition of Done.

In future lectures, we're gonna go over what happens during the Sprints,

starting with the Sprint Planning event.

Let's keep moving.