Now, let's talk about Sprint Planning.

This event initiates the Sprint by laying out the work to

be performed for the Sprint.

For the Product Owner, planning efforts start before Sprint Planning.

He or she must enter the event having analyzed what needs to be done next and

what should be the purpose of the Sprint.

In other words, the Product Owner must have a set of Product Backlog items

and their mapping to the Product Goal.

The Product Owner might analyze questions such as which ideas and

assumptions need to be validated, which risks need to be addressed,

or, for instance, which functionality needs to be provided or enhanced.

In Scrum, the Sprint is like a mini project,

and the Sprint Planning event is when the Scrum Team defines the

goal of what to build and the flexible plan to guide achieving it.

The plan is called the Sprint Backlog.

Now, let's talk about Sprint Planning itself.

First, who participates in Sprint Planning?

The Scrum Team.

Further, the Scrum Team may invite others to attend to provide advice.

For instance, the candidate Product Backlog items might require working with

a new technology that the Scrum Team does not have enough experience with.

Therefore, it might be a good idea for the Scrum Team to

invite a specialist to assist it.

Another example would be working with a specific domain, such as

developing a health web application.

In this case, there are international standards that have a direct impact

on the app's requirements, and it is vital to be aware of them for

being able to release the app.

Thus, if the Scrum Team isn't familiar with such standards, it might be a good

idea to invite a specialist to help it.

Further, how do we execute the Sprint Planning?

The event has three topics to be addressed

First, why is this Sprint valuable?

Second, what can be Done in this Sprint?

And third, how will the chosen work get done?

The event is timeboxed to at most 8 hours for a one-month Sprint.

For shorter Sprints, the event is usually shorter.

Let's start talking about the first topic.

It begins with the Product Owner discussing the opportunities

for increasing the product's value and utility and how the

current Sprint can address them.

As a consequence, the whole Scrum Team defines a Sprint Goal, which

communicates why the Sprint is valuable, bringing transparency.

As an example, for our case study, let's assume that the Scrum Team

came up with this Sprint Goal:

“Users easily access the system using a valid e-mail.”

After the Sprint Goal is created, it is time to define what can

be Done during the Sprint.

For this purpose, the Developers select items from the Product Backlog through

discussion with the Product Owner.

Notice that it might be necessary to refine these items during the event.

To define how much can be completed within the Sprint, the

Developers might use information, such as the upcoming capacity.

The upcoming capacity is about how many hours available the

Developers have for this Sprint.

For instance, will anybody be out of the office during the Sprint?

This situation might be the case if anybody has a planned vacation.

Further, the Developers could also consider their past

performance as a reference.

It is not the case for our case study because we are simulalting the first

Sprint, we are assuming to have a new team, which means we don't have

data to be used as a reference.

Another factor that the Developers should consider for defining what can

be Done in the Sprint is the Definition of Done because the more stringent it

is, the longer it might take to get Done with each Product Backlog item.

After considering all these aspects, the Developers select the candidate

Product Backlog items for the Sprint.

Given this, let's assume that, for our case study, the Developers selected

these three Product Backlog items.

At this point, we have covered the first two topics of Sprint Planning.

Let's continue discussing it in the following lecture!

See you there.