Now, let's talk about the third topic of Sprint Planning.

The goal now is to come up with the Sprint Backlog, which consists of

the Sprint Goal, the Product Backlog items selected for the Sprint,

and the plan for delivering them.

Notice that, at this point, the Sprint Goal and a set of candidate Product

Backlog items have been defined.

Thus, we still need to create the plan.

And notice that the Developers have the final word regarding this step since no

one can tell them how to turn Product Backlog items into Increments of value.

Scrum does not prescribe how the Developers should do this, but we

will see an example here to understand better how this is done in practice.

Most Scrum Teams decompose the Product Backlog items into technical tasks,

which are smaller chunks of work, often to units of one day or less.

The goal here is not to define all the tasks, but to give the Developers a

better forecast of the work they can do.

Let's see an example of how the Developers could decompose the Product Backlog items.

For instance, if you're working on a software product, which is what we

are simulating in our case study, the Developers can start by designing a

sketch of the solution, which includes the user interfaces, integration with

other systems, and so on, so that they have an overview of what needs to be done.

This activity should take around 15 and 20 minutes.

After everybody has a big picture, they can sit, each team member with

a stack of small index cards they will use to write technical tasks.

And then for each Product Backlog item, in our case here, we have

three, each person secretly will write tasks, one for each index card.

They will do that for five minutes.

After the five minutes, they will share their tasks and discuss each one to try

to come up with the final set of tasks.

A good practice is to get the sketch you have done previously and try to

map the tasks you have planned with each part of the system integration

or user interface you have to develop.

But this is just an extra validation step to check your tasks'

completeness and is not mandatory.

The goal is to reach a consensus regarding the tasks for each Product Backlog item.

As an example, let's simulate following this procedure for our case study.

The first Product Backlog item is about the user signing up

or registering on the system.

Let’s assume that the Developers came up with these tasks.

There are no rules here regarding how to write down the tasks.

There are only two essential points.

First, the Developers must be able to remember what the task

is about during the Sprint.

In other words, each task needs to have enough details for reminding the

Developers what they were thinking about during Sprint Planning.

And the second point is that the Developers don't need to predict all

the tasks to be done during the Sprint.

They should focus more on the first few days of the Sprint.

Of course, the most they can predict, the better if they can do it fast.

However, it is totally normal; it is expected to have new technical

tasks coming up during the Sprint.

The main goal here is for the team to have more informed

decision-making to plan the Sprint.

Let's keep going.

For the second Product Backlog item, which is about logging in

the system, we had these tasks and for the third one, these tasks.

After decomposing the Product Backlog items, what do we do?

Well, it's time to wrap up the event.

After thinking more about the Product Backlog items and having more information

about the work to be done, the Developers might negotiate the selected items

for the Sprint with the Product owner.

As a result, they can end up selecting more Product Backlog

items, fewer Product Backlog items, or keep it as previously planned,

always focusing on the Sprint Goal.

For our case study, we're just going to keep the three Product Backlog

items we have selected previously.

And as a result, we have the Sprint Backlog.

Great job!

You have just developed your first Sprint Backlog.

From now on, whenever the Sprint Planning is over, only the Developers can change

the Sprint Backlog, and the Sprint Backlog is their only source of work.

This rule is fundamental for maintaining the Developers’ autonomy.

Let's keep moving.