How does Kanban tackle the queue problem, promote the ongoing flow of

value and avoid the waste of resources?

The answer is Kanban’s Pull System!

Let us go over this concept by going back to the task board

discussed in the past lecture.

As previously discussed, we have a queue formed

in the Review column.

This queue is getting formed because the

people writing the articles are not checking if there are reviewers available.

The writers are simply writing as many articles as possible and

pushing them forward to the next column, the "Review" column.

As a consequence, the articles to be reviewed accumulate, and the writers

expect the reviewers to handle them because, you know, they are using the

mindset "my job is to write articles.

I am doing my part and I'm not responsible for the next steps".

This mindset and strategy reflect

a Push System.

Each person takes care of their work and pushes the article’s card

to the next step, transferring the responsibility to the person in charge.

There seems to be nothing wrong with this, right?

In contrast, in a Pull System, the person on the right on the board drives the flow.

Thus, in this example, the writers don't push work to the reviewers; the

reviewers pull work from the writers.

To clearly understand how a pull system works and its impact on the flow, let

us see, in practice, how it works.

We will start by taking a step back when there were no articles written.

Initially, I would have all articles that need to be written

in the NOT STARTED column.

Before moving on, we need to make two adjustments to this Kanban board.

The first adjustment is breaking down these two intermediate

columns of the board into two, like this, to track when these columns

have work in progress or done.

And the second adjustment is to define the maximum number of items I

can have in each column, like this.

Notice that we have two numbers for each column.

The number on the left indicates the number of items currently in

progress, and the one on the right indicates the maximum number of items

in progress that the column holds.

For example, for the "Write" column, we have zero items in progress and a

maximum limit of work in progress of one.

I know you may be wondering about the purpose of these modifications,

but don't worry about it; just follow the explanation because

you will learn along with it.

Now, we are ready to start!

Remember, there is only one rule that everybody must follow: work is pulled!

For example, if I am responsible for writing articles, I will start

the flow by picking up a card.

Say I choose to work with this article about leadership and start working on it.

Notice that the number here on the left increase, indicating that we have

one item in progress for this column.

While I am working on this article, can I, or any other person, pull

another article to be written?

No!

Why?

Because we have reached the limit of items that can be in

progress for the “Write” column!

Let us assume that I am done with the article and move

it to the "Done" sub-column.

Notice that the card is still in the "Write" column, but it has

moved from the “In Progress” sub-column to the “Done” sub-column.

Now, a reviewer notices that a new article is done; what does she do?

She pulls the card to the “Review” “In progress” sub-column and

starts to review the article.

Now, notice that we opened space in the “Write” column!

Thus, let us keep going and assume that one more article was pulled

from the “Not started” column.

Whenever it is done, it is moved to the right.

At this moment, can a reviewer review a new article?

Yes, because the limit of articles in the REVIEW column is two, and we

currently only have one in progress.

Thus, the second article is pulled to the right.

And, this is how the flow goes: the items only move to the right if allowed

by the work in progress limits and if someone is available to pull it.

Let us now assume that a new article was written and is ready to be reviewed,

but two articles are still here.

In other words, we have reached the limit for both the “Write” and “Review” columns!

What happens?

Well, the newly written article cannot be pulled for review, and we

cannot start working on a new one, which means that we are blocked!

If we didn’t have the work in progress limits and kept writing

new articles, we would just form a huge queue at the “Review” column

because it is clearly a bottleneck!

Keeping writing new articles is a waste because it won't help

create real value, which is only achieved whenever articles are done.

In this course, we will discuss how to deal with a situation like this

in detail, but, in summary, there are two simple solutions: have writers

review articles or hire more reviewers!

And this is the beauty of the Pull System!

In a straightforward way, it helps the organization visualize its

workflow status and helps people detect waste and optimize the process!

Now, let's go back to our example.

The people kept working, and we got into this scenario: all the steps are blocked!

Then, notice the incredible magic of the Kanban Method:

let us assume that we got done with this article about “Shyness.”

What happens?

For each new item that is done, a new slot is released at the column to the left,

making it available to pull more work.

Given that we got done with this article about “shyness,”

we can now pull one article to the “Review” column.

And by doing so, we open up one slot in the "Review" column.

Then, we can pull one more article to be reviewed, opening up on slot for the

“Write” column, which means that the team can start writing another article!

In summary, the main idea here is that Kanban, through its

Pull System, avoids queues

and gives the organization insights on managing resources,

removing bottlenecks,

and eliminating waste by promoting an efficient creation of value.

At this point, you might have understood the concept of the Pull System but might

still be in doubt about why Kanban is crucial for organizations nowadays.

In the following lecture, let us discuss where and when Kanban

organizations apply Kanban.

You will be surprised.

See you there!
