Now, let's talk about the Daily Scrum, which, as the name suggests,

is a meeting that occurs daily.

During this meeting, which is timeboxed to 15 minutes, the Developers

get together to talk about their progress toward the Sprint Goal and

to adapt the Sprint Backlog as needed.

It is held every working day at the same time and place.

Why, Mirko?

To reduce complexity.

So, what do we talk about?

Well, most teams have each member to answer three questions.

First, what did I do yesterday that helped the team to meet the Sprint Goal?

Second, what will I do today to help the team meet the Sprint Goal?

And third, do I see any impediments that prevents me or the team

from meeting the Sprint Goal?

Notice that using this three questions to drive the meeting is just an example.

The Developers set how to conduct the meeting.

The important thing is that the meeting focuses on assessing the team's progress

toward the Sprint Goal and produces an actionable plan for the next day of work.

Notice that the Daily Scrum is not a technical problem-solving meeting.

If someone is having a hard time with a task, she should make the

other Developers aware during the meeting and maybe ask for help.

However, it is not that time to discuss the solution to the problem.

Often the Developers meet throughout the day for detailed discussions or to

adapt the rest of the Sprint's work.

Just for you to have a feel about how a Daily Scrum would go, let's

simulate one here really quickly with the assistance of a Scrum board.

For this purpose, let's assume that we have a Scrum Team composed of three

Developers, Michael, John, and Alicia.

And that this is the first Daily Scrum of the Sprint.

Let's also assume that the Developers decided to always run the meeting

using an alphabetical order and the three popular questions that I have

presented earlier in this course.

Since this is the first Daily Scrum of the Sprint, we will assume

that there are no impediments.

Alicia could start by choosing to work on these tasks.

That's why we moved them to the work in progress column and marked it with an

A, her name's initial, just so everybody knows that she's working on these tasks.

John chooses to work on these ones and Michael, on these ones.

Notice that, after the Daily Scrum, they might make a quick

meeting to discuss technical stuff.

Now on the next day, same time and place, they will come together

to run the Daily Scrum again.

Let's assume here that Alicia got done with her tasks.

And chooses to work on this one today.

On the other hand, John got done with this one, but not with this other one,

because he had a technical problem.

Then Michael volunteered to help him right after the meeting.

And what about Michael?

He got done with all his tasks and pulled these other ones.

And this is it.

Great job.

https://medium.com/@mirkoperkusich/a-complete-guide-for-conducting-effective-daily-scrums-a481c853eed0

71..
We are almost getting done!

There are only two more events for you to master: Sprint

Review and Sprint Retrospective.

Now, let's talk about the Sprint Review!

As we have previously discussed, the Sprint Review is held

at the end of each Sprint.

Its goal is to inspect the Increment or any other outcome of the Sprint and, if

needed, adapt the Product Backlog or determine any other future adaptations.

Ideally, for this meeting, you will have the presence of users,

customers, and internal stakeholders.

For Konyu, this could be, for instance, the person in charge of operations or

someone responsible for customer support.

And, it would be awesome to have people representing the target customers,

such as a collector or store owner.

If they can't show up, the Product Owner represents their interests, but it is

essential for them to be there because if they inspect the Increment, they can

give the Scrum Team valuable feedback.

With the collected feedback, the Scrum Team can analyze and

update the Product Backlog.

Further, the progress toward the Product Goal is discussed.

As with all the other Scrum events, the Sprint Review is also time-boxed.

For a one-month Sprint, it is time-boxed to 4 hours.

For shorter Sprints, it is usually shorter.

Now that you have an overview of the Sprint Review, let’s learn more about

how to execute one in the next lecture.

See you there.