Now that you have an overview of Scrum's process to inspect and

adapt the Product let's see how to execute the Sprint Review.

Before getting to the event itself, what happens before the Sprint Review starts?

Well, it all begins with the Developers getting ready for the event.

They need to check which Product Backlog items are done, given the

Definition of Done, and prepare them to be presented during the Sprint Review.

For example, for our case study, let’s assume that our Scrum Board is like this,

with all the Product Backlog Items Done.

The Developers must make the features related to these Product Backlog Items

available to demonstrate them to the stakeholders during the Sprint Review.

For the first Product Backlog Item, this means that the Web page containing

the form for the user to create a new account must be available for

the stakeholders to try to use it.

The second one is concerned with the sign-in.

Thus, the Web page related to signing into the system must be Done.

And the third one is related to recovering a password, which means

that the Web page enabling users to recover their password must be done.

Let's assume that the team has verified that everything is working correctly.

Notice that, in our case study, we are assuming that all the

Product Backlog Items are done.

However, sometimes, it is not the case.

Therefore, the question is, should the undone work be presented

during the Sprint Review?

What do you think?

Pause the video for a minute, answer the question, and come back.

The answer is: No, it shouldn't.

Only the Increment is presented during the Sprint Review, and undone work

must not be part of the Increment.

Having said this, we are good to keep moving.

We're ready for the Sprint Review event.

But, before discussing how the Sprint Review should be held, let's

talk about how it shouldn't be.

What is the Sprint Review not?

The Sprint Review is not a demo meeting.

Even though I said that in Sprint Review events, the Developers present

the Increment to stakeholders, it is not a demo meeting.

“What do you mean, Mirko?” you might ask.

I mean that the Sprint Review is not an opportunity for the Developers to

show progress, give a product update, or sell themselves to the stakeholders.

It is not a formal status meeting.

So, if the team is presenting something with slides, screenshots

of the tools, or something similar, there's something wrong.

You won't have a real Increment inspection.

The customers, the stakeholders, will be inspecting screenshots and

images of something that might be representing the product, which

does not lead to quality feedback.

And second, for the Sprint Review to be valuable, you need stakeholders

that understand the market, maybe even users or customers, as we have

previously discussed, to participate.

If they're not, the team will miss the opportunity to

learn more about the product.

So, what's the point of having a Sprint Review if you use slides

or if the customers are not there?

Given this, what is the Sprint Review about?

The Sprint Review is about transparency and collaboration between the

Scrum Team and key stakeholders.

You have transparency by allowing the stakeholders to use the

Increment whenever possible.

So for Konyu, you would give the URL to the customers.

They will get their laptops, phones, or computers, access the URL,

and then try to use the features.

So, for instance, for the signed up feature, they'll access the Web page

made available by the Developers and try to fill the spaces so they

can experience how the feature is being provided in the product.

They must do this for all the new features developed in the Increment.

If you're working with a mobile app, you give them a smartphone

with the latest version of the app.

Even better, if, for instance, you're creating an Android app

and the stakeholders have Android devices, install the app on their

devices and let them try to use it.

They need to experience the real product.

In summary, we have that the Scrum Team and invited stakeholders participate

in this event, which has as inputs the Increments developed during the Sprint,

the Product Backlog, and market analysis, which is vital to define the next steps.

During the event, the Sprint's outcomes are inspected, progress towards the

Product Goal is discussed, and the Product Backlog might be adjusted.

Thus, the outcome of this event is a direction on what to do next, which

usually means an updated Product Backlog.

And this is it!

You are now ready to answer any questions about this event on your PSM I assessment!

Great job!

In the following lecture, let's test your knowledge with a PSM I Sniper lecture!

See you there!