We have just talked about inspecting and adapting, focusing on the product.

Now, it's time to think about the team, inspecting and adapting the Scrum Team.

The Sprint Retrospective is an opportunity for the Scrum Team to

reflect on their methods and teamwork.

It's about making teams better, continuously improving.

Maybe, your team is having interpersonal issues?

Issues with the quality of the product?

Maybe, the Definition of Done needs to be discussed and adjusted?

Is the team having productivity issues?

Maybe, caused by process issues, such as unproductive Scrum events or the

Sprint length not being appropriate?

These are all example of topics to be discussed during

a Sprint Retrospective event.

As with all Scrum events, the Scrum Master ensures that event

is positive and productive.

The Sprint Retrospective occurs after the Sprint Review, concluding the Sprint.

It is timeboxed to three hours for one-month Sprints.

For shorter Sprints, the event is usually shorter.

In general, the goal is to answer three questions.

What went well during the Sprint?

We want to identify the good stuff and repeat them as much as possible.

What didn't go well?

We want to identify the best stuff too, but just identifying them is not enough.

We need to come up with solutions and improve.

For our case study, let's assume that Konyu's Scrum Team, after inspecting

how the last Sprint went with regards to people, relationship, process,

and tools, came up with these items.

The Scrum Team considered that this stuff went well and these ones didn't.

After discussions, they identified these improvement opportunities.

Finally, the Scrum Team identified the most helpful ones and added

them to the Product Backlog.

You don't need to understand the meaning of each one of these improvements,

but notice that some of them don't require effort from the Scrum Team.

For instance, changing the Daily Scrum to 11h30am, doesn’t require

effort from the Scrum Team.

It is just about, you know, rescheduling, the Daily Scrums.

Conversely, others require effort.

For instance, configuring static code analysis for continuous

integration requires Developers to set up the tools and workflow.

And finally, we are done.

You now know everything you need to know about the Scrum events.

Great job.