Now, we will discuss Scrumban’s flow for delivering value so that you

have a big picture of how it works.

Before moving on, it is important to notice that Scrumban does not have

an official definition or definitive guides such as Scrum and Kanban.

Thus, what I'm going to present here is a generally accepted definition

of what Scrumban is in the industry.

As you already know, both in Scrum and Kanban, the flow starts

with a list of work to be done, usually, called the backlog.

It is the same in Scrumban.

The difference is that Scrumban has a column named “Ready”,

next to the “Backlog” column.

This column stores work items that originate from the backlog.

And they are the most valuable work at the moment, usually, having more details than

the others about the work requirements.

For example, while in the “Backlog” column, I could have a card only saying

“Auction feature” representing that we need to develop a feature for supporting

auctions on an e-commerce website.

Clearly, the software developers would need much more information about this

whenever they start developing it.

Whenever the card is moved to the “Ready” column, we could add

details to it, as illustrated here.

You don’t need to read or understand the details presented herein.

I just showed you this example to give you a general idea of the

difference between a card sitting on the “Backlog” and “Ready” columns, ok?

Further, there are no prescriptions for the level of detailing required.

It is up to the team to decide.

The only role is that the “Ready” column only has the most important work items.

Now, have you noticed that the “Ready” column has Work in Progress limits?

In this case, the limit is five.

There are three primary reasons for having such limits and

understanding them is essential to better grasp Scrumban’s mindset.

Thus, pay close attention.

The first reason is to avoid wasting time with excessive planning.

In Scrum, we start each Sprint by planning it, which requires the team to select

Product Backlog items to fit the Sprint’s timebox, creating the Sprint Backlog

During the Sprint, the team only works on items from the Sprint Backlog.

In general, Scrum’s Sprint Backlog-based work management requires the team

to estimate the size of the Product Backlog items and, sometimes, break

them down to fit the Sprint.

There are two challenges with this approach.

First, sometimes estimating size is too hard because the requirements

are ambiguous or the team has no idea about development details.

This is usually the case when working with new technologies, for example.

Second, the team might waste time discussing too many Product

Backlog items because not all of them will fit the Sprint Backlog.

Scrumban simplifies this work management strategy by saying that

most effort on estimation is waste.

Thus, it approaches this by adopting Kanban pull-based work management and

limiting the amount of work that the team can focus on, in other words,

limiting the number of cards in the “Ready” column, regardless of their size.

In this example, since we already have five items on the “Ready”

column, the team gives full attention to getting them done, instead of

wasting time planning more items.

The second reason for limiting Work in Progress for “Ready”

items is that it defines the virtual length of an iteration.

In contrast to Scrum, Scrumban doesn’t have timeboxed Sprints

with a predefined length.

In Scrum, if you have a 2-week Sprint, this means that every two weeks the

team stops developing to conduct the Sprint Review, Sprint Retrospective,

and Sprint Planning events.

In other words, there is a fixed cadency for holding such events.

Scrumban doesn’t have timeboxed Sprints or iterations.

However, in general, we would like to have releases or gather feedback from

stakeholders, at most every 2 weeks.

For this purpose, instead of using a 2-weeks timeboxed iteration, we estimate

a Work in Progress limit high enough to keep the team busy for around two weeks.

In this example, I defined the Work in Progress limit as five,

estimating that the team would get done with them in 2 weeks.

The main point here is that we don’t have to select backlog items to get

done in the next two weeks, as we would do with Scrum, we would only

define the Work in Progress limits to guide us on having a two weeks cycle.

In other words, while Scrum is product-oriented,

Scrumban is flow oriented.

It focuses more on flow metrics such as cycle time and throughput.

Notice that if the team misses the estimate and delivers the five items in

13 days or 16 days, it is not an issue.

The team analyzes what happened and tries to optimize the flow for future work.

Further, the team and stakeholders define when to hold the Review and

Retrospective events given their needs.

We will talk more about this later in this course.

What about the Planning events?

Answering this question leads us to the third reason for limiting Work

in Progress in the “Ready” column: support the continuous flow of tasks.

In Scrumban, we don’t hold Planning events with a fixed cadency, as we do in Scrum.

Instead, we have On-demand Planning, only holding them whenever needed.

In practice, we only hold Planning events if a minimum amount

of “Ready” cards is reached.

And, we can define this number based on an expected ideal frequency

for holding Planning events.

For example, here I am assuming that we can get done with 5 items in 2 weeks.

Thus, if we assume that holding Planning events every week is the

ideal frequency, we could define the minimum amount of “Ready” cards as 2.

Thus, in this situation, we would hold a Planning event aiming at pulling

three cards from the “Backlog” column into the “Ready” column.

This is why I say that Scrumban has virtual iterations.

Instead of having timeboxed iterations like Scrum, it is pull-based and

events are only held when needed.

However, as we discussed, we can control the cadency of events by

setting the Work in Progress limits.

We have a big paradigm break with Scrumban and it is OK if you

are still a little bit confused.

Scrumban doesn’t follow Kanban’s continuous flow nor

Scrum’s timeboxed Sprints.

It is a combination of both, Kanban and Scrum in the form of a

pull-based work management approach.

Thus, I recommend that you watch this lecture again to have a better

understanding of Scrumban’s big picture.

Next, move to the following lecture in which we will clarify each of the

key points of Scrumban and I am sure that, by the end of this section, you

will understand Scrumban’s practices.