Since the last lecture had a lot of new information, let’s make a

quick recap highlighting the four main aspects of Scrumban flow.

The first key aspect relates to iterative development.

In Scrum, we have timeboxed Sprints lasting at most one month.

Periodically, we stop developing to plan the next Sprint.

And during the Sprints, we develop Increments focusing on reaching

the Sprint Goal, which is usually product-driven and might include

developing features or managing risks.

In Kanban, we have a continuous flow of requests and delivery

without using Sprints or iterations.

While in Scrum, the Sprint timebox is a way of giving the team focus, Kanban

does that by limiting Work In Progress.

In Scrumban, we have virtual iterations because they are not timeboxed.

However, Scrumban adds a little bit of structure to Kanban’s

continuous flow because it limits the number of "Ready" items.

Thus, in Scrumban, the iteration period is a goal reflecting the

expected cycle time and throughput.

For example, if we define the “Ready” limit as five aiming to

deliver everything in 15 days, we are forecasting that, on average, we need

three days to get done with an item.

Thus, 15 days is the target period of our virtual iteration.

The second key aspect is the iteration backlog.

In Scrumban, the iteration backlog is represented by the “Ready” column, which

has a limit on how many items it can take.

Similarly, Scrum has the Sprint Backlog.

The main difference is that, in Scrum, the Sprint Backlog is reset

after each Sprint, as a Sprint ends and a new Sprint is planned.

In Scrumban, the iteration backlog persists and is only updated as

needed, in other words, whenever the team has space to pull work

from and to the “Ready” column.

Further, since Scrum has timeboxed Sprints, all the Sprint

Backlog items have an implicit deadline: the end of the Sprint.

Scrumban doesn’t focus on the deadlines of the items, but on the flow, in other

words, maintaining adequate average lead time, average cycle time, and throughput.

The third key aspect is about Iteration Planning events.

In contrast to Scrum, where we have Sprint Planning at the beginning of each Sprint,

Scrumban has On-Demand Planning events.

In other words, they don’t automatically happen at the beginning of each

iteration but only when needed.

Scrumban’s Planning event focuses on filling the “Ready” column until it

reaches its Work in Progress limit.

In contrast, with Scrum, we always have to define the Sprint Backlog

starting from scratch, which might require more effort from the team.

The fourth key aspect is consistently having short iterations.

Even though Scrumban’s iterations might last longer than planned

because they are not timeboxed, the objective is to have a frequent

and predictable delivery of value.

As a rule of thumb, you should aim for at most fifteen days

as the iteration’s length.

In summary, Scrumban seeks to reduce the amount of Scrum’s planning

effort by using Kanban’s flow monitoring and control mechanisms.

On the other hand, it complements Kanban by using virtual iterations

to promote feedback loops.

Now that you have the big picture of Scrumban, in the following

lectures, we will go over more details about the main aspects of Scrum and

Kanban used by Scrumban and how they are usually adjusted in practice.

See you in the next lecture!