Now that you have an overview of one of Kanban's central concepts, the pull

system, let us dive into how organizations worldwide, from the most diverse sectors,

have increased their efficiency and results by adopting the Kanban Method.

This lecture is essential to highlight Kanban's flexibility and

open your mind about how it can be used in the most diverse situations.

Let's get started!

At this point, you already know what a Kanban Board is, and it

might even be the case that your organization already uses it.

However, the board is only part of what we call the Kanban Method.

The Kanban Method goes far beyond this because it includes using

concepts and techniques to optimize the workflow; the board is just a

tool for visualizing the workflow.

The Kanban Method is very flexible and can be applied by any organization

with a continuous in-flow of requests!

Let us go over a few examples.

In past lectures, we have seen how Kanban can be applied in the Marketing sector.

And it is easy to see that it could also be applied to any

sector that produces content, such as the news publishing industry.

What about IT?

Let us take the case of WhatsApp.

WhatsApp is a system used by millions of people worldwide.

But do you think WhatsApp is a perfect system without defects

or improvement opportunities?

Of course, not!

Indeed, they have a support team available daily to fix WhatsApp's

defects, ensuring that you, the user, have the best possible experience.

This team uses a Kanban Board like this one, where you have a backlog, which

is a prioritized list of open defects.

Then, there is a step for analyzing the issue,

another one for registering the defects being fixed,

and, finally, a column for when the defect correction is done.

Notice that I am simplifying a lot.

In practice, their workflow most probably has more steps.

A similar workflow can be used by any business that works with maintenance,

including building maintenance, computer repair, companies that

fix customers' equipment and so on.

Do you realize that just talking about maintenance, we would have

dozens of business examples where the Kanban Method would be valuable?

We can go on and see that Kanban can be applied to architecture, engineering,

and even in law practice; we have a continuous flow of requests everywhere.

We will discuss these different ways of applying Kanban later in this course.

The key point here is that if you have a continuous flow of

requests, you have an excellent opportunity to use the Kanban Method!

Before moving on, it is valuable to know that Kanban was born decades ago in the

manufacturing industry with Toyota, and it was a key factor in Toyota's success.

They started to apply Kanban, as shown in this image!

The tasks were registered in physical paper guards!

The Kanban board was iron shelves!

This aspect indicates that Kanban is not only about the tools but its principles.

What you will learn in the following sections is based on the same principles

that enable Toyota to produce cars efficiently and generate lots of profits.

For this reason, before moving on to the details of the Kanban Method, take a

look at the video I made available in the following lecture, which tells a little

bit about how Toyota created Kanban!.

It is a fascinating story!

After watching the video, take some time to take the quiz.

If you have questions, please, don’t hesitate to reach out

through the course’s Q&A board!

I will see you in the next section!
