w, that you have a better grasp of Scrumban, let’s compare it with Scrum

and Kanban and discuss when to use it.

We are going to compare Scrum, Kanban, and Scrumban using these factors.

First, in terms of team size, a Scrum Team typically has 10 or fewer

members, while this is undefined for Kanban and Scrumban teams.

However, notice that this is not a rule and that you can scale

Scrum by having multiple Scrum Teams working on the same product.

If you want to learn more about this, take a look at Scrum.org’s Nexus Guide.

In terms of accountabilities, Scrum prescribes three, while Kanban

and Scrumban don’t prescribe any.

However, it is common to use or adapt Scrum’s accountabilities in Scrumban.

While Scrum has Sprints lasting one month or less, Kanban follows a continuous

flow, and Scrumban has virtual iterations aiming to last at most 2 weeks.

Scrum Teams start a Sprint by conducting a Sprint Planning event.

Kanban doesn’t prescribe planning events, while Scrumban has on-demand planning.

One of the goals of Scrum’s Sprint Planning is to select items from the

Product Backlog to the Sprint Backlog.

Thus, in general, the selected items must fit the Sprint, while

Kanban and scrum and Scrumban have work items with unlimited size.

Further, we can conclude that Scrum’s work management is Sprint Backlog-based because

the Sprint Backlog is the single source of work for the team during the Sprint.

Conversely, Kanban and Scrumban have a continuous pull-based system.

As an observation, during an iteration, Scrumban teams only pull

work from the “Ready” column, but they are free to update it whenever

they want without bureaucracy.

This discussion leads us to the next aspect: the board.

In Scrum, the board is reset after each Sprint, since each

Sprint starts from scratch.

Conversely, Kanban and Scrumban have persistent boards.

Some people say that limiting Work in Progress is restricted to Kanban

and Scrumban, but this is not true.

They limit it at the column level, but Scrum also limits it.

By having timeboxed Sprints, in Scrum, the work in progress is

automatically limited by the Sprint Backlog, since it is the team’s only

source of work during the Sprint.

However, it is important to mention that Scrum gives the team the flexibility

to change the scope within the Sprint.

Many people point out that one of Scrum’s disadvantages is that any

change in scope mid-sprint must wait for the next one, but this is not true.

You can change the Sprint Backlog, as long as it doesn’t endanger the Sprint Goal.

However, if the change endangers the Sprint Goal, you should, in

general, wait for the next Sprint.

You also have the option to cancel the Sprint, but this should be only

done if the change is really critical.

Notice that you might still see this as a weak point of Scrum in terms of handling

changes, but there are techniques that you can apply to handle super volatile

environments such as every Sprint Planning, reserving part of the team

capacity, say 20%, to handle unplanned work that might come up during the Sprint.

I have used this before and worked like a charm.

Finally, the last aspect is the Events.

Scrum prescribes that these events must be conducted every

Sprint, with no exceptions.

In contrast, Scrumban teams usually conduct these events too,

but on-demand, and Kanban have no prescriptions about events.

However, it is a good practice to conduct these events in Kanban

for promoting feedback loops.

Now, for us to have a big picture about how Scrum, Kanban, and Scrumban

compare in terms of flexibility, let me use a color code for this table.

Here, I used green for the most flexible approach, red for the least

flexible, and yellow if in-between.

For example, in the first line, I marked everything with green because none of

them have rules regarding the team size; Scrum only suggests having a team of 10

or fewer people, but it is not a rule.

In the third and fourth lines, I marked Scrumban with yellow since

it adds a little bit of structure on top of Kanban by having the “Ready”

column with work-in-progress limits.

As you can see, in general, Scrum is the least flexible and Kanban the most.

This result is expected since Scrum is a more complete framework, with more rules.

However, it is important to notice that Scrum and Kanban have different goals.

Scrum focuses on building the right product within a

context of high uncertainty.

This is why it focuses more on product management strategy practices and

has, for example, Product Owner and the Sprints as a way of building part

of the product to gather feedback and adjust the requirements as needed.

On the other hand, Kanban focuses on optimizing the workflow.

As we already know, these ideas complement each other.

Scrumban complements Kanban with some Scrum ideas and practices.

This is why Scrumban is a way of implementing Kanban.

Conversely, Scrumban removes some of Scrum’s mandatory aspects, and

this is why Scrumban is not Scrum.

Scrumban does this as a way to minimize waste, especially in planning activities.

One situation in which Scrumban, instead of Scrum, is used a lot is when

the team has a hard time estimating the effort for completing work items.

This might be the case when the work item is ambiguous or very complex.

An example is developing an innovative machine learning algorithm for

recognizing objects from images.

This task has lots of uncertainty regarding gathering the dataset, cleaning

the data, building the models, defining hypothesis, testing them, and so on.

Thus, it might the case that estimating work items and planning Sprints ends

up being a waste of time because the estimates will be very imprecise

and the team might finish a sequence of Sprints without being able to

get any Product Backlog item done.

In summary, we saw that Scrumban makes Scrum more flexible

while adding structure to Kanban.

However, adopting it requires caution and we will discuss why in the next lecture!

See you there!