We discussed in the past lecture, Scrumban makes Scrum lighter by removing

some of its aspects, such as the iterations’ timebox, and making the

accountabilities and events more flexible.

However, adopting Scrumban can be dangerous if the organization and

team don’t have enough maturity with Agile, Scrum, Kanban, and Lean.

There is an old Japanese philosophy called Shu-Ha-Ri.

It says that first, you must follow the rules;

Then, after you master them, you can analyze how well the rules

apply to your context, and break them for having a better fit.

Finally, with enough maturity, you create new traditions and ways of doing things.

When you are following Scrum rules, in general, you are in the SHU stage.

Scrumban is HA, which means that is not for rookies.

Unfortunately, I see many people migrating from Scrum to Scrumban without

understanding the why’s behind Scrum.

For example, some teams don’t hold Sprint Retrospective every Sprint

because don’t see the value in doing so.

However, the problem is that usually that they don’t know how to conduct

effective Sprint Retrospective events or the reason for them to exist!

Other organizations prefer to have multiple people fulfilling the

Product Owner accountability, breaking Scrum’s rule and justifying that

having a single person for doing the PO’s job is too complicated.

You shouldn't be removing Scrum’s rules for them being

hard or complicated to follow!

You should only migrate from SHU to HA, from Scrum to Scrumban, if you dominate

Scrum, Kanban, Agile and Lean values, principles, and practices by heart.

Otherwise, moving to Scrumban will be cutting your own throat.

Thus, my final message is to be conscious of where you are.

If you don’t master Scrum, Kanban, Agile, and Lean stick to the basics.

You are still at the SHU level.

Stick with Scrum’s rules.

Whenever you have enough experience and knowledge to consider yourself at

the HA level, consider if moving to Scrumban or making other adaptations

to Scrum makes sense or not.