86.
That's it!

I hope you enjoyed this incredible journey we made here by learning

Kanban, Scrum, and Scrumban.

In this course, you have understood each of their detail, practice them,

and had an unforgettable experience.

Furthermore, I hope you transform all you learned here into

opportunities for your growth.

To do so, just look at the current scenario of your company or the company

you work for and analyze which principles and practices you learned could be applied

to the company and bring improvements.

If you find opportunities, make suggestions.

Feel free to use the examples shown in this course.

There is no need to implement everything, but if the workflow at the company is

obscure, now you know how to map it and may want to suggest using a Kanban board.

Or, if you are having problems with queues in the process, offer training about

how this flow can be monitored through metrics such as lead time, cycle time,

work item age, and throughput and charts such as the Cumulative Flow Diagram.

Suggest improvements.

Make it happen.

I wish you much success.

It was an immense pleasure to be with you in this course, and continue to count

on me, both during and after the course.

I want to see your success, and I would be pleased if you could send me

a message here or on LinkedIn sharing your experience of how this course

helped you to succeed in your life.

I hope to be with you again soon!

87.
About the Professional Scrum with Kanban (PSK) assessment
How to take the Scrum.org PSK exam?



Anyone can take the test. There are no prerequisites for registering. You only need to pay the fee.



In what follows, I will present some specifications and instructions on how to take the exam.



Specifications:

Price: $200 USD per attempt

Time: 60 minutes

Number of questions: 45

Type of questions: multiple choice, multiple answers, true/false

Passing score: 85%

Open-book: yes

To take the assessment, go to Scrum.org's PSK page, click on BUY PSK I ASSESSMENT (bottom of the page), and pay the fee.

https://www.scrum.org/professional-scrum-with-kanban-certification

Later, you will receive an e-mail from Scrum dot org with the instructions to take the assessment.



--------



Next, I will share a few tips for helping you to get ready for the PSK assessment.

88.
Tips for the Professional Scrum with Kanban (PSK) assessment
In this course, we covered almost all the topics for the PSK assessment.



Next, I present a list of topics that you need to go deeper into or keep an eye on. For each reference, whenever needed, I recommend further readings (I added a link to the documents and I also uploaded PDFs as resources in this lecture). Further, whenever appropriate, I also give highlights for the topic.



For passing PSK, in a nutshell, you need to learn more about:



The relationship between Kanban and Scrum

Read:

- The Kanban Guide for Scrum Teams



Highlight:

- Kanban augments Scrum, without removing any of its characteristics

- It is fine to reserve part of the team's capacity (e.g., 20%) for unplanned work during Sprint Planning. It is a way of dealing with highly volatile and uncertain environments, without compromising lead time, and highlight the importance of the Sprint Goal.

- Scrum events are kept the same, but are impacted by having a greater emphasis on the flow.

- Releases during the Sprint are welcome, as it has always been with Scrum.



Definition of Workflow

Read:

- The Kanban Guide for Scrum Teams

- A Kanban Primer for Scrum Teams



Highlight:

- Might span longer than a Sprint. In other words, it might include more states than the Sprint Backlog.

- When it comes to the Sprint Backlog, the Developers own the Definition of Workflow. In the remaining cases, the Scrum Team owns it.



WIP limits



Highlight:

- We care about the flow of value and learning, which is the flow of Product Backlog items. Thus, in general, the limits should be for Product Backlog items. However, limiting tasks in progress can be useful (but does not replace limiting Product Backlog items)



Service Level Expectation

Read:

- https://kanbanize.com/blog/kanban-service-level-expectations/



Highlight:

- Has two parts: a range of elapsed days and a probability associated with that period (e.g., 85% of work items should be finished in seven days or less).

- It is primarily an internal indicator (something that the team aspires to) to help inspect and adapt, not as a commitment or deadline for tasks.

- Can be used during Sprint Planning to provide an idea of the service level that can be expected from the team, but not deadlines for each Product Backlog item.

- Enables the team to forecast a finished data with certain confidence once the item has been started.



Urgent work

Highlight:

- Having urgent work is not a valid reason for increasing WIP limits.

- If the item is really urgent, start working on it immediately, regardless of WIP limits (exceed them if necessary).



Batch size

Read:

- The attached document about batch size.



Highlight:

- Even though reducing batch size is typically desirable, it is not always the optimal solution.



Kanban metrics

Read:

- Learn about Aging WIP chart: https://kanbanzone.com/2019/aging-work-in-progress/

- How flow metrics are used in Scrum's events: https://www.scrum.org/resources/blog/4-key-flow-metrics-and-how-use-them-scrums-events



Highlight:

- Work in Progress and Work Item Age are leading metrics (used for predictions).

- Cycle Time and Throughput are lagging metrics (used for measuring past performance).

- The analysis of Work Item Age is useful for that given task, not for the flow in general. For example, it can be used for predicting the cycle time for that task, not for the average cycle time.

- Professional Scrum with Kanban does not focus on story points or velocity, but on Cycle Time, Work in Progress, Work Item Age, and Throughput.

- Expect to see questions about the CFD and the scatter plots seen in this course.

----



[BONUS]

Take (several times) the Scrum with Kanban Open assessment from Scrum dot org: https://www.scrum.org/open-assessments/scrum-kanban-open



Take this free practice test: https://www.thescrummaster.co.uk/assessments/professional-scrum-with-kanban-psk-i-practice-assessment/



[OPTIONAL]

Take the Scrum Open assessment from Scrum dot org. You can access them by clicking here.

----



Whenever you are done with the readings above, take the PSK assessment practice test available next.



Have any questions?



Ask a question on the course's Q&A board and I will be happy to help you.



All the best,



Mirko

Tài nguyên cho bài giảng này

