90.
In this module, I'm going to teach you what is considered to be the best

technique in the world for you to be as productive and efficient as possible in

carrying out your day-to-day activities.

Getting Things Done or GTD.

With GTD, you will get things done.

It is a very simple but powerful solution for managing your day-to-day

tasks, and it is a technique that I use to manage all my tasks.

The truth is that many people even ask me, "Mirko, how do you

manage to handle so much stuff?"

Maybe you're not aware of what I'm doing today, and I also don't know when are

you going to be watching this video.

After all, these videos are being recorded today but will be watched

for years by a lot of people, and maybe when you watch, I'm doing a lot

more or less things than I do today.

But for you to have an idea, I am the Research Manager

at Virtus Innovation Center.

At Virtus, I manage the Intelligent Software Engineering Group,

where I currently work with a group of researchers and Ph.D.

and master candidates, performing studies on how to improve productivity

in software engineering by applying intelligent techniques, such as artificial

intelligence, Bayesian networks, machine learning, genetic algorithms, and so on.

We are a very productive research group, publishing impactful

scientific papers consistently.

Honestly, this would be already too much to handle because there are

several projects going on at the same time and a lot of scientific

content to be updated with.

But, I also run a startup named KONYU, and I am also starting up

two more companies, Omni Academy, focusing on producing high-quality

online courses, such as this one.

And ScrumPM, a training, and consultancy company on applying Agile Management.

On the personal side, I am married with tchoo daughters . And, you know, I have

all those daily routine tasks, such as grocery, bills to pay and so on.

And I also play tennis.

I played college tennis in the United States when I was younger, and of course,

I don't practice as much today because I used to practice three or four hours

per day, but I still practice enough to be one of the top players in my region.

Plus, I got to find time to keep learning and evolving.

So as you can see, I have lots of stuff to do.

But I managed to get work done.

I have a very intense day-to-day life.

Everything is working out.

Everything is moving, everything is evolving, and in this whole story,

GTD has been literally an essential tool in my personal and professional

life because all that I told you happens with a certain harmony and

efficiency, as incredible as it may seem.

After all, it is really a lot of stuff for one person to handle.

Plenty of things for only one Mirko Perkusich to do, but things have

been going well and have evolved.

However, there are professionals who live this reality of having

many things to do for one person.

And then they complain, you know, this is a lot for me to do alone.

In our modern life, we have so much stuff to do.

There are many emails to send, many others that you have received and have

to process—information,

activities, planning.

We constantly communicate with others through

social networks, always getting

updated with the news, using Twitter, and so on.

So, now we have a very strong demand on a day-to-day basis.

We work, work, work, and still, we feel that we are behind.

As a result, we ended up extrapolating and working 10, 11, 12 hours a day.

Extrapolating work to the next day and making it a routine.

And what happens?

Many people end up mixing their personal time with their

professional life and going crazy.

And the worst of all is when you start to accept that it should be like this.

Life is like this.

You have to give up your personal life to be able to handle your professional life.

There are a lot of people out there who are working three

shifts a day, taking work home.

They are at home thinking about work problems, and then they are at

work thinking about home problems.

And they're so used to it that everything ends up becoming a normal

and acceptable thing, when in fact this is going to destroy your personal life.

As a consequence, we end up having health problems, relationships get destroyed,

and this is very, very frustrating.

Now focusing a little bit on the professional side of our life, the

fact is that we are not prepared in our life to deal with all these

dynamics of the modern world.

The education system at school...

they don't teach us how to deal with this.

So we have today's work environment where priorities change all the time,

new demands appear every minute, and nobody received formal training for this.

And then each one tries their best to manage work in time,

in the best possible way.

But at the end of the day, you work long hours, and you apply your way of

organizing sometimes an organized mess.

So from here on, I will give you as a bonus a good dose of the GTD technique,

which if you listen in practice, you will become someone more efficient, more

productive in all aspects of your life.

It will help you to focus on the right thing at the right time, helping

you to manage your time better.

And, as a consequence, you'll have better results, being much

more productive and efficient.

And to wrap up this lecture, let me tell you one thing, you have enough time to

do every important thing in your life.

This also includes your personal life.

I'm not just talking about the professional life here...

Arnold Schwarzenegger, Albert Einstein, Roger Federer, Michael Jordan, me and you.

We all have 24 hours per day.

The difference is how we go about managing our time, and I'm

sure GTD will change your life.

91.
Let's get started talking about GTD.

So what is GTD?

Essentially, GTD is a productivity tool, period.

GTD was created by David Allen, and it is a solution to manage

your day to day activities, your responsibilities, regardless of what

you do or your area of activity.

It does not matter.

It is completely agnostic.

If you have things to manage your life, activities to do in

your day-to-day, GTD is a way for you to handle them efficiently.

And according to the GTD methodology, for us to be highly productive, we have

to carry out five steps consistently and regularly, that is, without wavering.

So we're going to go through this diagram in later lectures, but now I just want

you to understand that you have to be consistent in what you intend to do.

One of the key principles of GTD is having a clear mind.

I'm not talking here about meditation, yoga, or something similar.

So now you might ask, but Mirko, what does it mean to have a clear mind?

It is simply thinking only about what you need to think and

also do it at the right time.

So, listen well.

It is about thinking only about what you need to think and also thinking

about executing them at the right time.

For example, you know when you're at your desk working on a task, and then

you remember that you still have to make a call today to your sister, for

instance, for arranging about Sunday lunch, then at the same time, an email

arrives in your mailbox, you don't open it, but you see, this is from an important

customer and he's very angry with you.

Just by seeing that email, curiosity hits and urges you to stop whatever

you're doing and read the email.

This, my friend, is not having a clear mind.

What is the outcome?

You're going to be very inefficient.

You will end your day tired, but when you check your work done, you will feel

that you haven't accomplished much.

Now think about it for a little bit.

Have you ever been through something similar?

I'm pretty sure most of you have felt this way before.

I sure have.

This feeling is horrible.

Very discouraging.

Let's try to understand a little bit better what happened.

So, you start to work on the report, and then your mind is divided.

You're thinking about the content of the email you have just

received from an angry client.

Plus, your mind is constantly having to remind you that you still have to call

your sister today to schedule lunch.

So in practice, you're not only writing the report.

You're switching between tasks.

That is, you read an email, answer the email, go back to the report and

then remember to call the sister...

and then go back to the report.

Remember the email...

call the sister, go back to the report...

and then you suddenly remember that you have to give a message to

your boss, then go to the boss's office, go back to the report.

This is not efficient!

So, I'll ask you again.

Have you ever been into this situation?

Well, I can tell you that a lot of people do this.

So, you have some people saying that they're really good at multitasking,

but it's just an illusion.

Science has already shown that you lose 30% of your

productivity when you multitask.

That is, you switch between two or more tasks.

So think about it.

Many people feel very productive and are proud to say that they have so much

stuff to do and that they multitask.

But the current scientific understanding is that they are not

as productive as they could be.

Because 30% of their effort, their energy, their time is lost, wasted.

Isn't this crazy?

So, let's say you work 10 hours per day.

If you multitask, you're wasting three hours.

Three hours per day is a lot of time.

You could be working out, socializing with friends, spending

more time with your family.

And what are you doing?

You're just wasting your time.

And remember, time, my friend, is our greatest asset.

You can't buy time.

You can get poor and then get rich.

You can get fat and then get thin.

You can sometimes get sick and then get healthy.

But time...

you can't go back in time.

No way.

At least that's what we know today, right?

Maybe someone invents a time machine, such as in Terminator, but for

now, you can't go back in time.

You can't buy time.

So here we have our first big takeaway for this course: "being

busy is not being productive."

So now you might understand why you might plan to finish up your work in 8 hours,

but you end up taking 10 hours, and then you have to take work home every day.

So, if you want to be more efficient, you need to have 100%

of your focus on the task at hand.

You need to do one thing at a time, at the right time, having a clear mind.

A final tip related to this point is to turn off notifications.

They are very distracting.

There's nothing worse than, while you're working, you get into that flow, full

productivity mode on, and then bling!

Your phone vibrates!

Or emits a sound, letting you know you got a new email, a new message, a new

engagement on Instagram, or whatever.

A new update on your game, a new app was released.

It's just distracting you.

It's taking control of your time from you.

So just turn them off.

You must be in control of your time, not your phone.

Don't let other people make you busy, distracted, and less productive.

You need to do this for yourself.

Great!

Now, you know, one of the key principles to be productive,

which is having a clear mind.

We as human beings have a lot of concerns, work issues, health,

children, government, and so on.

Having a clear mind is thinking about what can be resolved,

given your current context.

For example, if you're at home, your current context is your home.

So let's suppose it's a Sunday afternoon and you start thinking

about the work problem, a pending issue, an email you have to send,

a phone call you have to make.

Your head is in a chaos of information and concerns about work.

But, guess what?

You're at home, and you cannot solve any of those things right now.

Right by your side, you have your wife or husband, maybe your kids, your children.

And instead of you enjoying your time with them, your head is a mess,

and you get stressed thinking about stuff that you have no control over

at this particular instant of time.

You cannot solve your work problems right now.

And you know what, you shouldn't.

Why?

Because you're out of the context of your work.

So you're just feeling busy, but you're just wasting time and getting

stressed out because you're not going to be able to solve anything right now.

Even worse.

You're going to start your day on Monday, already stressed out, and you might end

up not being productive during the day.

This is a very vicious cycle that can make you very, very sick.

Currently, there's a lot of people talking about a new syndrome, burnout syndrome.

So, you know, you got to really be careful with this.

But then you might think: "but I can work at home.

I could spend my Sunday working..."

But the point is, should you?

Do we really have to work on a Sunday afternoon?

Or is it just because you're not being productive during your work time?

This is the key question.

So a key principle about GTD is not about managing time, but rather a

question of how to have a clear mind.

Got it?

And now, you might ask, but how do I have a clear mind?

First thing, stop using your head to store information.

Using your head for keeping pending work, responsibility,

commitments is not a smart move.

Our mind is not prepared to deal with so much information and to

remember to do everything at the right time without missing anything.

It is just not prepared for this.

So what's the catch?

Our mind is good to perform actions.

So be smart and use it for this purpose and not to be a reminder of stuff to do.

The task of storing information, storing stuff to do should be

delegated to a sheet of paper, your cell phone, a notepad, an agenda.

That's what these things are for.

And you should start now!

Take note of everything that you need to do and store it somewhere.

There are several mobile and web apps available, or you might even

prefer to use a traditional agenda.

You name it, do whatever works best for you.

This is the first step for you to become more productive.

Let me just give you a really quick but valuable tip here.

Always have the means to make quick notes on stuff to do.

Whenever I'm working on my laptop, I always try to have a piece of paper

and a pen available right next to me.

So if I'm working on a report...

so for instance, suppose I'm writing an article.

If somehow I remember about something to do, or I have a

new idea for a new project.

I just write it down immediately.

I just get my pen and write it down on paper.

Very simple, but it has been very helpful for me.

So, you know, just stop using your head to store information.

Just by doing this, you'll end up getting rid of a good part of your stress.

And it is the first step for you to be able to balance your professional

life with your personal life.

Now that you understand the basic principle of GTD, which is to

totally clear our mind and use it to focus on doing one thing at a

time, then we are ready to know the five truly magical steps of GTD.

92.
GTD is composed of five main steps, collect, process,

organize, plan and execute.

Let's start talking about step one, collect.

Collecting is merely making explicit, getting out of your mind, registering

all your concerns, stuff to do, work stuff, personal stuff, everything.

For example, right now, you're watching this video.

And maybe, you're going to remember something that you have to do, make a

call, pay your bill, send an email, visit a friend, making an appointment, study for

a test, or a meeting that you must attend.

So, what to do?

You register!

You register everything that comes to your mind.

Or maybe you're in the car, on the subway, or you're going to bed.

You're going to sleep.

Even in the pool.

Do you remember something that you have to do?

A responsibility, a task.

Get out of the pool, take notes and then come back.

You must always write down what you thought, regardless of the time or place.

I usually have many ideas when I'm already in bed, ready to sleep.

Suddenly, an idea comes, a reminder of something that I have to do,

an email that I have to send, a contact that I need to make.

But, hey!

I'm going to sleep.

So, what to do?

Just go to bed and try to remember it the next day?

Of course not!

I write it down and then concentrate again on going back to sleep peacefully.

I don't have to worry about forgetting my idea because I registered it.

Now, if I go to sleep without taking notes, the next day, I'm going to wake

up, and most probably, I'm not going to remember the idea I had the night before.

You know that situation where, for instance, you're on the subway, and then

you remember: "I have to call Brian."

And then, after five minutes, you're like, I know I had something to do,

but I can't remember it anymore.

Well, maybe it wasn't that important.

So, you know, it was a really straightforward task.

Just call Brian.

You just remembered about that five minutes ago, but you know, we tend to

forget about this stuff because our mind is bombarded with reminders all the time,

but it has a limited space to store them.

At any time, there's no rule for this to happen.

Your mind can come up with something that you have to do.

And then the problem is that the reminders really need to be remembered, because many

of them must generate action on your part.

And if you don't do anything, you can miss an opportunity,

or you can get in deep trouble.

So, the first thing you have to do is collect, register.

Collecting is a continuous effort.

Do you remember something?

Did you have an idea?

Record it!

Take it out of your head, and record it instantly.

You might write it down in a notepad, a notebook, a mobile

app, whatever works best for you.

We will talk more about the tools later.

For now, please just understand this first step, which is fundamental.

For you to understand the importance of recording

everything, let's see an example.

Consider that you're trying to remember a phone number.

If, while you're trying to memorize the number, I start saying random

numbers, what's gonna happen?

You're going to get really confused!

And you know what?

You're going to end up forgetting some numbers.

They will be erased from your mind, completely erased.

This same phenomenon occurs with tasks.

But instead of forgetting numbers, you're going to forget about tasks.

At this point.

I really hope that you're convinced that you need to write down stuff.

You need to collect.

But now, you might ask, but Mirko, how do I collect?

Which tools should I use to record my collection?

For you to have a peaceful mind, you need to be very good at collecting everything.

And the best thing is that you don't need much to collect everything.

You can use a physical means such as a notepad, a calendar, and sticky notes.

As I said in past lectures, I always have a pencil and pen available.

So, if I remember something, I can easily write it down.

Back when I was in college, I had a very intense lifestyle.

I was a student-athlete, and I also worked part-time and was involved

with non-profit organizations.

Furthermore, I had a very busy social life.

One aspect of my college career is that despite having so much going

on is that I was a great student achieving the highest honors.

I got an impressive, almost perfect GPA.

Finishing my undergrad in computer engineering with a 3.9 out of 4 GPA.

I'm not telling all these just to brag about myself.

I'm not this type of person.

The point is that I don't consider myself to be differentiated by birth,

a genius or truly talented gifted individual, far away from this.

I never did an IQ test or whatever, but I consider myself to be average.

I think that the most important factor for my success at that time is that

I had the method to organize work.

And that I was very disciplined and consistent.

At that point, I had a really cheap phone, which only served me

to make phone calls and messaging.

So my solution to collect was very simple.

I always had a piece of paper stick next to my bed, in which I would record all

my responsibilities, homework, projects, study sessions for tests, and so on.

Afterward, I would schedule when to resolve each of my to-do stuff.

That's it, it worked really well!

Just with a pencil and paper.

At that point, I confess that I didn't even know about the existence of GTD,

but I executed a very similar method which had as its foundation, collect.

I would put all my to-do stuff on that piece of paper.

Nowadays, my life is way busier, and we have better technologies.

So, I use web and mobile apps.

Mobile apps are awesome because we always have our smartphones with us.

So, by rule, whenever I'm on the run, and I remember something, I

just register using my mobile app.

Additionally, once a day, I stop and try to remember stuff to do.

And then, I recorded it in the app.

Sometimes I use the mobile app.

Sometimes I use the web app.

I usually do it during the morning.

Other people do it before going to bed at night.

Experiment and do whatever works best for you.

However, If I'm already working on something, as I said in past lectures...

if I'm already writing a report, writing a scientific paper, or whatever, an idea

pops up, and then I don't get my phone.

Because for me, I think that if I stop what I'm doing to get my

phone and then look for the app, I'm going to get distracted.

And guess what?

I might end up losing that 30% of multitasking time.

And I don't want to take this risk.

So something that has been working really well for me is to have a

pencil and paper right by my side.

So whenever I remember something, I just get the pencil, write it down

really fast, and then go back to work.

So, you know, I don't end up losing that 30%...

it is not characterized like multitasking, at least for me,

it's working really, really well.

You should try.

But before going forward, I just want to emphasize that, like with

any process, framework or method, you must not adopt GTD as it is.

You must adapt it, tailor it to your needs.

I'm telling you how GTD works for me.

But you're free to experiment and adapt it to your needs.

Each person has different needs, a different routine, okay?

But, if you need any help or suggestion, just let me know, and

I'll do my best to help you, agreed?

Great.

So let's move on.

So the main point that we have been discussing so far is that if

you remember something, record it.

Use a phone, a piece of paper, whatever suits you best.

But, the second important thing is that you have to forget about it.

You write it down.

And then you'll deal with it later.

You really need to forget about it.

You know why?

Because the main objective of this first step is to clear your mind.

And that is why collection has no time to happen.

It is a continuous effort,

got it?

And, since GTD is very practical, I wanted to make this lecture

very practical for you too.

Therefore, I created a spreadsheet for you to get started applying GTD.

So, pause the video here and download the spreadsheet.

Okay.

So, here we have the spreadsheet.

And, on the home tab, just a quick reference to all the GTD steps.

Let's go to the second tab, inbox.

This is where you register stuff to do...

today, tomorrow, in the next days, next week, whatever you remember...

a call, a job, a visit, an email, a report.

So, before watching the next video, write down things in your inbox.

As you see here, in this example, Where I registered seven things

that I got to get done soon.

So, try to do it for at least seven things and then move on to the next video.

93.
At this point, we have already discussed GTD's this first step, collection.

And now we're going to move on to the next GTD step, process.

Process, is the stage of processing what we have collected.

And for us to proceed, I'm going to present you the GTD

flow chart with more details.

Here we have a more complete flow chart.

Right here, in the beginning, we have the stuff that we have collected in step one.

All the items collected are recorded into the inbox, which here represents your

spreadsheet, notebooks, smartphone, app, agenda, or whatever fits you the best.

Now, already talking about the second step of GTD, which is the process step,

we are going to define the destination of each thing we have collected

each item you have written down.

And to define the destination for each of the items, you start by asking yourself,

should I take any action on this item?

Or, in other words, is this item actionable?

Examples of yes answers would be an action that I must do.

That is, make a phone call, write an email, work on a document,

take an online course...

But maybe it might be something with no value for me, such as receiving an email

of stuff that I am not interested in.

So, what do I do?

I trash it.

Or maybe a second alternative, something with value, but not for now.

Maybe, it's an idea of a book or a course that I would like to take, but recognize

that it's not important for me right now.

So, I won't really need to take action now.

So what do I do?

I store it at someday or maybe, and that is why we have a tab called

someday/maybe in your spreadsheet.

So in this tab, you have things that maybe one day you will do.

For example, an idea that you took note of, but you're not going to plan or

execute right now, for instance, I know I need to paint my room, but not today.

Maybe next week, maybe two weeks from now.

I don't know.

I'm not going to plan this right now.

So, in these situations, what do you do?

Just add it to the someday/maybe list, take it out of your head, got it?

And the third possible destination for non-actionable

items is simply to archive them.

The best example for this is an email, you know that email that you have read,

but you don't have to take any action on it, but also you don't want to delete

it because it can be useful sometime...

maybe you receive a copy of a contract, or your insurance policy.

There is no action you need to take on it.

Hopefully, you'll never need it, but you better store it.

I like to file, to save as reference content that I know that sometime it

might come very handy, such as templates and guidelines for how to create a resume

maybe, or maybe websites with interesting online courses that I could take.

Also, for instance, I produce a lot of content daily, be it for teaching

something, publishing a scientific article, or more industry-focused

papers on project management, software engineering, productivity, and such.

So, whenever I come across interesting blog posts, scientific articles,

examples, books, and so on...

that I think that might come in handy for me as a reference in the

future, maybe to reuse in an example or something, I just record it.

And this simple task of referencing might save you a lot of time.

Therefore, we have three possible destinations for non-actionable items.

It either goes to waste, the list of someday/maybe, or you

will save it as a reference.

Got it?

So, at this point, we have covered the initial part of processing.

We are separating the items that we must act upon from the others.

Think of it as a filter.

As input, you had all your stuff, and as output, you will only have

to worry about the actionable stuff.

All the other stuff you have already classified as waste, someday/maybe, or

you have filed for future reference.

Great!

Now it's time to see what happens with the actionable stuff.

In other words, stuff that you must take action.

So coming back to this image...

we are done with this part, and now we have to worry about these ones.

And, at this point, you need to ask yourself, what is the

first action on the given item?

Or what is the next action on the given item?

You think about what's the first thing you need to do to accomplish the item.

Is it making a phone call, answering an email, generating

a report, creating a checklist?

So now you need to think about this.

If you have an item that is just about making a phone call, just writing an

email, or just a little short report.

You can get it done in just one action.

In one sitting, you get it done.

Do you agree?

If it's just about making a call, you just make it, and then you're done.

If you just need to reply to an email, you just sit reply or

email, and you're done, right?

Your problem is solved, but there are also some items that require

more than one action to be resolved.

For example, if you need to plan a vacation trip.

In that case, what would be the first action?

Maybe you're gonna call the travel agency.

But, you know you're going to have to look for hotels, put together a

vacation script, maybe invite friends.

So a vacation trip is like a multi-step planning item.

So in GTD, we call this a project.

And, in our spreadsheet, you're going to place projects in a specific

destination, which is your project's tab.

Then, you're going to fill the lines with the projects, and you just need to

register the first action to be performed.

You don't have to think about all the steps, just the first

one, the next one, got it?

So this is what you do when you have multi-step items.

You just store it as a project and think about the next action.

So, now we have just talked about this one.

Now, what do you do?

If you have an item that only requires one action to be completed?

The first thing you do is to check if it can be done in less than two minutes.

If yes, what do you do?

Do it!

Do not leave it for later.

Do not write it down elsewhere.

Do not schedule.

Just solve it right now.

If it takes at most two minutes, just kill it, solve it right now.

The idea here is to avoid having you wasting more time managing a

to-do list than getting work done.

So, an example here is just a short email that you have to answer or

maybe a message from your boss, but a really simple message.

So just reply to it really fast whenever you're processing.

Now, if the item cannot be solved in two minutes, what do you do?

Let's talk about this in the next lecture.

I'll see you there.

94.
At this point, we have a task that needs to be done, and that

takes more than two minutes.

What to do?

Well, the next question you should ask yourself is: should it be resolved by me,

or could someone else perform this action?

If you can delegate it to someone else, you're going to store

this item on the "waiting" list.

So, here in our spreadsheet, we have a "waiting" tab.

If you prefer, you can name it as delegated, whatever you want.

And in this list, you will put everything that you have delegated to someone

else, but that you need to follow up until they send you the result, okay?

If needed, don't forget to put the name of the person responsible and any deadlines.

This information is important so that, you know, when you should check with the

responsible about the given tasks status.

Here, what I usually do is to put reminders for myself about

when should I check with the responsible for the current status.

For instance, I might do it every day at 9:00 AM.

And what I always do is make a quick note whenever I have this status.

So, for instance, on Monday morning, I get a status from John.

Then he tells me what it has accomplished as of now.

So I take a quick note then on Tuesday morning, I check again.

So when I do that, I can compare what John says he has accomplished until Tuesday

and compare what he has done from Monday.

And then I can see if you really evolved, and I can check if

he needs help or something.

Okay?

And I need to say, when I started doing this, it helped me a lot.

I have a lot of work that I need to delegate.

Now, if it shouldn't be solved by someone else, that is, it must be solved by you,

and you can't solve it in two minutes, there are two possible destinations.

The first destination is the calendar.

This is the case when you have a specific date or time.

Maybe, for instance, a meeting or maybe a bill that you have to pay.

That is, if you have something that needs to be executed on a specific

date, then you go to a calendar.

And now, you might ask, but Mirko, what calendar should I use?

Well, I suggest if you have a Gmail account, a Google account,

just use the Google calendar.

That's what I use.

So I have here the Google calendar.

And, if you have an email from Google, you just need to type calendar.google.com.

And it's really easy to use.

Just click on the time slots and schedule your actions, okay?

If you prefer, you can also use a traditional physical calendar.

You just need something that has all the days of the year.

But I prefer to use digital tools.

The second possible destination is the "next actions" list.

So in our spreadsheet, we have a "Next Actions" tab.

In this list, you're going to report everything you need to do but that you

don't have a specific date to perform it.

You just know you need to do it as soon as possible, got it?

So now you know what to do with each of the types of stuff that you

have identified in the "collect" step, you have processed everything.

The goal of the GTD process stage is to process all the collected items.

In other words, your inbox needs to be empty because you have given a

destination to all the collected stuff.

And now you might ask, but Mirko, when should I do this?

You need to do it every day.

Systematically.

No exceptions.

Some people need to do it just once a day.

In fact, that's what most people do.

They do it once a day, for instance, at the end of the day, before going to bed.

Others need to do it multiple times a day.

For instance, I need to do it multiple times a day.

Why?

Because I work with a lot of projects in parallel.

So I have many things going on.

Lots of tasks delegated.

And as the manager, one of the most important points is

to be available whenever the team needs my help or feedback.

So, if someone needs my help at 10:00 AM, they will request my help through

email or the instant messaging app of choice for the given project.

And, you know, I rarely answer the phone unless I know it's

something very, very critical.

But why Mirko?

Because I control my time, not other people, okay?

So let's say that Brian is working with me on a scientific article, and he's stuck.

So he sends me an email asking for help at 10:00 AM.

If I only answer Brian at the end of the day, I might be wasting

Brian's entire day of work.

And guess what?

Sometimes it is stuff that I can figure it out in two minutes.

Not necessarily giving him the answer, but pointing him in the right direction.

Maybe a book, another article, or telling him to talk to John, who I

know is an expert in the field, got it?

That is why I do micro-processing multiple times per day, but

you don't have to do it.

Most of you can do it just once a day, and you'll be fine.

The only rule here is to do it daily with no exceptions.

So summarizing, what is your goal here?

You need to empty your "inbox" list.

That's it.

Give destination for everything.

And what do you do?

You follow the flow.

So before moving on to a practical example, let's just

make a really brief summary.

Given that you have your "inbox" list, you define if the items are actionable or not.

If not, you have three destinations: you trash it, you put it on somebody/maybe,

or you file it for reference.

If they're actionable, now you to think, is it a multi-step item or not?

If it is, you're going to store it as a project.

If not, you're going to process it.

If it takes less than two minutes, just do it.

If not, you need to ask yourself, am I the one responsible or the

one that should take an action?

Or not?

If not, you delegate it, and you put it for you're "waiting for" lists.

If not, if it's you the responsible, you need to check if: does it have to

be done at a specific date and time?

If yes, put it in your calendar, such as Google Calendar.

Otherwise, you just add it to your "next actions" list.

And that's it.

So, what have we done by now?

We have collected all the things to do, and we have given

a destination for everything.

But before going to organize, let's see an example.

So here we have my "inbox" list.

And the first item is to send emails to investors.

So this is a one-action item.

So what do I do?

I move it to the next action step.

So you can see here, my first action is to send emails to investors.

So what do I do now?

I delete it from my inbox.

The next item is to plan a vacation.

Planning a vacation is a multi-step action.

So what do I do?

I add it to the "project" list, and I define my next action,

which is calling the agency trip.

Okay?

Done.

Let's delete it from the inbox.

The next step is build Scrum.PM Website, which is similar to the next one,

which is build OMNI.Academy Website and they're all multi-step actions.

So what do I do?

I add it to the projects.

As you can see here, build Scrum.PM Website, and build OMNI.Academy Website.

And what are the next actions?

For both of them, just define the content.

Of course, I know there's more stuff to do, such as defining the design, building

the website, deploying it, and whatever, but for now, I just need the next action.

So I'm done.

So go back here and delete these two items.

Next item is to organize slides for keynote.

So I'm assuming here, which is the case, that I already

have a lot of content ready.

I just need to organize them.

So in one sitting, I'm done.

So I'm going to put this for my "Next actions" list.

And here it is.

Great.

So I'm going to delete it from my inbox.

And then, next step.

Next action is review Manuel's scientific paper, and also, the paper

is already done from his perspective.

I just need to sit and review.

Therefore I define it as one action item and put it on the "next actions" list.

Great?

So I can delete it from my inbox.

And the last item that I had in my inbox was scheduled

interviews with Konyu's clients.

So this one is also a multi-step item.

So I add it to the "projects" tab.

And my next action is to identify five potential business customers.

And with this, I have my inbox clear.

And I'm finally done with processing.

Now, it's your turn.

Process your inbox.

Afterward, move to the next video, where we're going to organize the work.

95.
And now that we have collected and processed all of our items, we

are going to move on to the third step of GTD, which is, organize.

And look, if you notice, with GTD, we're building our own

personal information system.

A private information system only related to our stuff.

We are feeding this system with information, and what does it do?

It is reminding you of what you need to do in the time when you need to do it.

So, we don't have to use our brains to remember anything.

You don't have to keep anything in your mind.

Everything you need to do will be in this information system of yours.

So, that is why it is important to collect and process very well.

The principle of GTD is to empty your mind and use it for only one

purpose, which is to perform actions.

Our information system consists of a few lists and a calendar.

And it is important for you to understand that it doesn't

have to be something complex.

A simple sheet of paper might be enough.

Just take a sheet of paper, write a title on it.

And that's it.

You already have a list in your hand.

Your information system.

If you prefer a mobile app, great.

There are a lot of to-do list apps available.

In this course, we are seeing how to use a spreadsheet for this purpose.

Having multiple tabs to organize your lists.

And this is a very personal choice.

You do it, whatever works best for you.

Experiment.

The important thing here is now we're going to create different areas to

put information on them, and these areas, we're going to call them lists.

So at this point, we already have some lists.

Lists for "next action," "maybe/someday," for "projects", for "waiting."

But now, in this step, in the "organization" step, you will, given

your personal needs, break down the list into more refined, contextualized lists.

For instance, right now, I have one tab, one list of "projects."

What you can do is to divide this project list into two different

lists, one for personal projects and another one for professional projects.

For instance, in my case, I could have a personal project list,

a project list only for Virtus.

Another one for Scrum.PM.

Another one for Omni Academy.

Another one for Konyu.

So I could have multiple lists.

So right here, these are just some examples of different types

of lists that you could have.

And if you're using the spreadsheet, how do you implement this?

Just create more tabs.

Give them the names so that you can recognize the type of task that you need

to do and do it according to your needs.

Personally, in particular, me Mirko Perkusich, I like to

have a few lists as possible.

I feel that if I have a lot of lists, it would just increase the complexity

of me having to manage a lot of stuff.

Okay?

But I'm just going to give you an example of why classifying lists

might be a good idea for you.

So suppose you're at home.

When you're at home, what should you be doing?

You should be doing stuff related to your home.

So you can go directly to your home list.

If I'm at Virtus, whenever I'm there, I can open my Virtus to-do list.

If you're going to the supermarket, you can open your supermarket to-do list.

Got it?

So in this step, you're going to organize better your information system, maybe

breaking down the previous list that we already have, the generic lists,

into categories that best suits you.

So this is a really personal choice.

And the only thing I can recommend you is to experiment

and see what works best for you.

So now stop a little bit.

And before going to the next video, try to organize your stuff.

Remember, this is not a one thing you do, and never do it again.

You can refine your process continuously.

Okay?

So try to do it, try to do your first version, try to define the

lists that are important for you.

That makes sense for you.

And then you move on to the next video, in which you're going to

talk about the planning stage.

96.
We haved all reached stage four of GTD, the planning stage.

Also called the review stage, which for me is the most fun stage, the coolest

one, because until now, we have already processed and organized everything.

And now, it is time for planning.

Here, I prioritize what I have to do in the next few days in the next week.

So I'm going to define what do I need to have done by the end of the next week, but

also what I'm not going to do next week.

And this one is very important too.

Because sometimes we put a lot of things to do during the following week, or

the next days, and we end up not even doing 50% of what we have planned.

So now we're going to learn how to do it correctly and efficiently so that

you get productive and not frustrated.

And how are we going to do that?

How are you going to plan your next week?

This first step works as follows: once a week, you must review your items.

And where are they stored?

Your lists and calendar.

Remember, there are only two destinations possible for stuff that you need to do

and are collected and processed, either one of your lists or your calendar.

Then once a week, you're going to stop, review these items and determine

what are you going to do next week.

It is suggested that you should do this every Friday morning because

generally you're well energized at the beginning of the day.

So you're going to get all your lists and choose which tasks are the most

important and urgent ones, and simply insert tasks into your calendar.

In other words, you're going to reserve separate time from your

calendar to perform the tasks.

At this point, I think you're already convinced that you need to plan your work.

You need to schedule all your work.

And you need to do it once a week.

But what do you do during this session?

What exactly do you do whenever you stop, for instance, every Friday morning,

for 30 minutes to plan your next week.

What do you do?

Well, the first thing you need to do is collect everything that needs to be done.

So you have been doing this continuously throughout the week, but this is a

time that you are going to do it again.

Try to remember everything, collect everything, process everything,

to make sure that during the next week you'll have your mind clear.

You won't have to remember anything, okay?

And then, after doing that, you're going to review your "action" lists.

If you have stuff done, mark it as done.

And, if you have really important stuff, you can already

schedule them right now, okay?

Then, go to the last calendar, reschedule tasks that were not done.

After doing that, the next step is to allocate time for each week's task.

In other words, you're going to review or plan your next calendar.

After doing that, you can review your waiting lists.

You're going to see all the tasks that you have delegated to people

and then do an update if necessary.

But, please understand.

Here is what you're going to do during this session.

For instance, review your waiting list.

You can do it during this section, but this doesn't mean that you don't need

to do it the other days of the week.

You might have to do it daily, for instance, or every two days.

It all depends on your personal needs.

The next step is to review your projects.

So we're going to review each project and define the next action.

If necessary, afterward, you might want to review your "maybe/someday" lists

because all your lists must be updated.

So, at this point, you might decide that maybe you're going to

really paint your room next week.

So you make it active.

So, it's going to become an active item that's going to your "next

actions" list, or maybe you're not going to do anything about it.

Just keep it as "maybe/someday," or maybe you're going to see, okay.

This doesn't make sense to me anymore.

Just remove it.

Why?

So you don't have a polluted list of maybe/someday actions.

Just make sure you don't have like garbage over there, okay?

And finally is: be creative and courageous.

Think about new projects, create new stuff so that you're always evolving

in your personal and professional life.

And please don't make too many items.

Don't try to solve everything in your next week.

There is no use in filling your calendar with stuff that you

won't have enough time to do it.

Don't underestimate effort.

If you need like two hours to do something, don't think you're

going to get it done in 30 minutes.

A tip that I can give it to you is that don't schedule

eight hours of work per day.

Because nobody can work eight hours per day.

You need to take a break, you need to go to the bathroom, you get

called in the last-minute meeting, you get called to help someone

else, you need to have a snack...

And there is stuff that...

unforeseen stuff that eventually might happen.

So, you know, literally, nobody can work eight hours per day.

So, what I suggest is that you per day only schedule six hours of work.

The idea here is that you don't get frustrated if you don't get done with

your stuff if you have scheduled eight hours per day because nobody can do it.

Just do it at most six hours per day.

And then you do it for the first week, for the second week.

And then, with time, you're going to refine your process

and be more efficient, got it?

So by completing this planning step, What is the result?

Well,

you have a plan of what

you need to do for next week and what's the next step?

Execution.

97.
And finally, we are here.

We are on the last step of GTD, execute.

Have you ever been in the situation of arriving at work on Monday,

Tuesday, Wednesday morning...

and then you think: "Hmm, what am I going to do now?

I have so much stuff to do..."

with urgency, priority that you don't know where to start.

With GTD, forget about this.

Why?

Because when you arrive at work, you are ready to execute.

You just open your plan and execute the plan.

Just do it.

Why did you have all the work of collecting, processing and organizing?

So that when you're ready to work, when you arrive at work on Monday morning,

you don't have to think about it.

Just Execute.

Now, it's time that you're going to really produce value.

No more thinking or planning.

You just got to stop and do exactly what you need to do.

Now.

Of course, it is also important to know that the calendar is flexible.

It will happen that you schedule to start a task at 10:00 AM, but then a

customer has an issue and calls you.

Or your team has an impediment, so you've got to stop whatever

you're doing and help them.

So, instead of working on the planned task at 10:00 AM, you might start

at 10 30 or maybe a little earlier.

It will all depend on the situation, but the important thing.

Is that you have to have your priorities and goals for each day of the week,

and they need to be planned in advance during the planning stage so that during

the week, you just need to go there and accomplish whatever you have planned.

Make it happen!

No more.

Decision-making about planning because you have already done it.

You can see it.

You see it on your schedule.

You just go and do it.

And remember what I said about only scheduling six hours per day?

Because you have approximately two hours to accommodate whatever

new stuff happens during the week.

And, I guarantee that if you follow what I have been teaching

you here in this course, you will always do the most important work.

And I'll tell you, one of the major causes of stress in people

is that they're doing something, thinking that they should be doing

something else, maybe more important.

With GTD, your mind is right here with you.

Always at war with you.

You will plan on Friday, and in the following week, you just execute.

But, of course, you need to be smart enough to always have room

on your schedule to accommodate that actual work that might happen.

So, to wrap up this lecture and to summarize everything

that we have discussed, GTD.

What have we just done?

We separate some time during the week to calmly set priorities

and schedule all work.

And then, we have peace of mind on the remaining time of the week to execute.

So what we are doing here?

We are separating concerns.

We're separating time for planning and for execution to avoid multitasking

and to make you waste your time.

And, when I say waste your time, I'm saying wasting your life.

Okay?

And this is it.

This was the last stage of GTD.

Great job.

98.
In my final words about the GTD, what I want to tell you is that you just

received here the Ferrari of productivity.

Getting things done is thought and applied in large companies to training

and courses, and it's considered the best methodology in the world to make us

productive people in everything we do.

I, in particular, am passionate about GTD.

It is very practical.

I really use it in my day-to-day, activities and I have really good results.

So I strongly recommend that you start practicing GTD today.

Whether as a whole, or just simplify it a little bit for starters, but try

to do it, try to put it in practice.

Experiment with all the tips that I have given you here.

Write down your appointments, put them on some lists, and

include them in your calendar.

You will see how you will become someone much more productive and trustworthy for

everyone around you and for yourself.

You will have enough organization.

You're going to be able to organize your life.

You will have the ability to promise and fulfill the responsibilities.

So now it's up to you.

I know a lot of people that had a very messy life, and they started

to use GTD and improved a lot.

I'm going to end with this final note.

As with any process, you need to experiment with it and mold it for

your lifestyle, for your character.

Each person has individual needs.

So maybe you might try to apply it on your first week, and you're not going to

have like great results, but keep trying.

Organizing your work, applying GTD is a skill that you can learn.

And I can assure you if you master yourself in doing this, you will

be a way more efficient person.

99.
Welcome to our Crash Course on Leadership.

Here, you will learn what are the skills and characteristics of a good leader.

And what path should you take to develop different skills throughout your career.

Perhaps, you are already a good leader.

Maybe you have already developed the skills, characteristics,

and profile of a good leader.

So I hope that you will leave here...

You will leave this course even more inspired as a leader

to develop yourself further.

And if you're that person who has not yet developed as a leader, your

communication is still not so good.

You still can't inspire other people.

Lead other people well.

You will certainly leave this course with better directions, with clarity as to

which path you need to follow in order to develop yourself as a good leader.

And first of all, what we need to understand is: what is leadership?

What does it mean to be a leader?

I like a definition...

in fact, you will find many definitions on the internet, from authors and books.

Different definitions of leadership.

And here's one that I consider the most accurate, the most complete one.

That says that: "Leadership is the art of leading people to achieve successfully

the results that were planned."

So, leadership is about dealing with other people.

You take these other people, you drive, you pull the car, and lead

these people to achieve the results you and them want successfully.

So leadership is closely related to the ability to influence and direct

other people to achieve a common goal.

This ability is one of the main characteristics that help

the professional to stand out.

Both in personal and professional life.

And as I said, it is very rare to find good leaders.

And then maybe the first thing that crosses your mind is whether this

ability, this skill to influence, communicate, direct other people, is

a natural gift, a talent, or a skill that can be developed throughout life.

I hear many people insisting on saying that leadership is a gift.

You're either born with it or not.

It is part of their DNA.

And then at that moment, when I hear someone saying something like

this, I remember some very famous professionals, very well-known people

who worked really hard, but people tend to say that they're gifted.

Let's start talking about this guy.

Have you ever heard of Rogerio Ceni?

If you haven't, let me just give you one number.

He played soccer or football, depending on where you're from.

And, he was a goalkeeper.

But he scored 131 goals during his career.

He used to play for Sao Paulo, which is one of the most successful Brazilian

teams, having won three times the world championship beating teams such

as Milan, Barcelona, and Liverpool.

And guess what?

He's in the club's top ten goal scorers list.

He was a top team scorer for two years in a row.

I mean, this is amazing.

He holds the World Record for goals for a goalkeeper.

Just for you to have an idea of the dimension of what Rogerio has done,

the number two is Chilavert from Paraguay, scoring 67 goals, almost

half the goal scored by Rogerio.

However, there is more.

Chilavert scored less than 20 free-kick goals, most of them were

from penalty, which are way easier.

Rogerio scored over 60 free-kick goals.

So, I mean, it is amazing.

So, one would say: "Rogerio is so talented, right?"

Once in an interview, Rogerio Ceni said that before attempting to hit

his first free kick in a match, he practiced hitting 15,000 free kicks.

His routine was to always be the first to arrive and the last to leave practice,

hitting around 3000 free kicks per month.

And all by himself.

So, you tell me, is Rogerio Ceni just a lucky, gifted, super talented person?

No, he worked hard, very hard.

And with really high consistency.

Let's see another Brazilian football player, Pele.

Considered by many the best football player ever.

People talk a lot about his talents and that he scored over a thousand goals, but

people don't mention that his father kept him training two hours extra every day.

So his father would take him to practice, and every day, he would

practice two hours additionally when compared to all the other guys.

Now Kobe Bryant, one of the best basketball players ever...

He was so talented, right?

Since a young age, he would wake up every day at 4:00 AM to practice.

Oscar Schmidt, one of the best Brazilian basketball players ever.

He was known as having the "Holy hand" because he was

mortal on three-point shooting.

And guess what?

He hated being calling like that.

Once during an interview, he said that his hand wasn't Holy.

It was trained.

Tiger Woods,

for our last example.

He has a very funny phrase where he says: "the more I train, the luckier, I get".

Tiger Woods is one of the best golfers ever.

And you know, golf is a pretty hard sport!

You have to hit the ball and make it go in a small hole placed

very, very far away from you.

So, sometimes people say that whenever they get a great shot

is the result of being lucky.

That's why he said that the more I train, the luckier I get.

Because the more I train, the more I hit the balls, so higher are

the chances of getting them in.

Thus, the point here is that I am aware that some people are talented.

They were born to perform a given task, such as being

really good at a given sport.

Maybe they were born with the right height, body mass, and mentality.

Of course, not everybody can be the number one, the best in the world.

Only the ones with raw talent, and that worked really, really hard.

Notice what I said.

They are really hard workers.

They work really, really hard.

Go ask Roger Federer, LeBron James, Michael Jordan, Steve

Jobs, Beyonce, you name it.

Name a successful person.

Ask them if they are talented.

I am pretty sure that most of them will feel insulted because they

worked really hard to get there.

Michael Jordan wasn't born knowing how to throw a ball.

He learned through practice, lots of practice.

But notice that what I just said, not everybody can be the number one.

But guess what?

It's okay not to be the number one.

You can still be pretty good.

You can still work for top companies.

I firmly believe that we are all capable of reaching great goals in

our professional and personal lives.

You want to play.

You want to learn a sport, play an instrument, program

a computer, you can do it!

Anyone can do it!

It doesn't mean that everybody can be a software engineer at Google or

Facebook, for instance because they have a limited amount of people they can

hire, but you can still be really good.

You can be a really good software engineer, project manager...

and work for good companies, or maybe create your own.

I think a little bit with me if we can learn all these things,

why can't we learn to lead?

Of course, we can learn how to lead.

You can become a great leader.

Some will have to work harder than others, but it is possible.

So the first thing is to define the correct mindset.

You need a growth mindset.

Don't be like most people that believe that talent defines their destiny.

You define your destiny on whatever field you are by your hard work and consistency.

Therefore, it is up to you.

So right now, it doesn't matter if you're not a great communicator.

If you don't know how to deal or inspire people, or if you're shy.

Just pay attention what I'm going to teach you from here on, and you will be

on the right path to become a good leader.

Ready?

So, let's move to our next lecture!

See you there!

100.
To get started.

Your first lesson is: being a leader is not being a boss.

So if you think...

hm, I want to be a leader because I want to command other people.

No, there are people who think that when they gain authority over others,

they become an untouchable God.

And now they just need to define what to do, give people commands, and

they need and will follow the orders.

This viewpoint could not be worse.

Considering the evolution that we have had in people management and people

leadership during the last few decades.

So if you have a boss like this, well, he's not a leader.

He's just a person with deep issues.

There's a big difference between boss and leader.

If you put it on the internet search on Google for "Boss and leader,"

you will find countless hundreds, thousands of articles, texts, and

videos talking about the differences between being a boss and being a leader.

Favoring you to be a leader.

So what is the difference between boss and leader?

Boss is the guy who has a position above yours, and therefore you

are obligated to obey to him.

And you obey him because it's your job.

With a boss, he will tell you what to do, and you will obey because

you don't want to lose your job.

The guy has a position.

He's above you.

And then, you and all the other team members are going to obey,

just because you have to obey.

Have you ever had to deal with someone like this?

How did you feel about him?

Did you like him?

Did you look forward to working for him for a long time?

I'll tell you one thing.

Companies lose great people because of having bad leadership.

A lot of people, they leave their boss, not their job, not the company.

Conversely, the leader is the one that you will follow.

You admire your leader.

Because leaders, they don't need to demonstrate power because

of their current position.

Their power is on their ideas.

The inspiration that they offer to their team.

For you to lead, you don't need to have a higher position.

It's not about hierarchy.

It's about how you behave and inspire people.

It's about listening to people and guiding them.

Being a boss is about telling people what to do.

Leading is about guiding the people and getting your hands dirty.

There are many leaders who are not bosses, and there are many

bosses who are not leaders.

There are many people who have the position, have the

authority of the position, but do not know how to be a leader.

They can't inspire their teams.

They are unable to make their teams work for him, but only for his position.

Just as there are many people who are leaders who are inspiring, who make

people listen and follow what they see, but they do not necessarily have

a high position in the organization.

Leadership is not associated with a position.

Leading is a function you take over, and so you inspire other people to do what

you need because they understand and trust you to do what you need to be done.

So it is important that you understand this difference and take the first step

to lead you, to develop as a leader, and not to prepare yourself to be a boss.

When dealing with a boss, you are afraid to go to his office.

You arrive at the door.

Before entering, you take a deep breath, summon up some

courage, and then you get in.

The leader is the one who leads you.

You want, you desire to be called, to go to his office.

You know he wants to make you grow.

He always seeks to guide you.

He wants to see you always on the best path.

And then you enter his room with the greatest pleasure.

You want to be with him as much as possible.

You know you're going to leave that room better than you got in.

Maybe you will not leave happy, because maybe you made a

mistake and got a fair scolding.

But, you will leave with extra learning because a good leader,

he corrects without offending.

He guides without humiliating.

The boss, on the other hand, makes use of power.

For him, if you made a mistake, you are weak.

You are not able, you are very bad.

"Be careful, or I will get you fired.

If you make this again...

be very careful.

I will fire you."

So the boss, they always threaten people.

The boss is always ashamed.

The boss is heavy, where he doesn't need to be heavy.

And often, he doesn't have a sense of justice, and he wants

simply to show his power.

He wants people to continue to fear him and obey him because of the power

he has for the position he holds.

While the leader inspires you, they make you move forward.

The boss, I even joke, the boss expires.

The boss makes you empty.

They demotivate you.

He doesn't give you any reason to be close to him and to want to learn from him.

And, there are other characteristics that make a good leader.

The leader is even more than inspiration.

A leader leads the team to do their best to follow him.

Leaders are very proactive.

Instead of waiting, they will seek.

Instead of complaining about the darkness, they light the candle.

So you must seek to develop to the maximum, all of this within you.

The characteristics of a leader, be proactive, seek to inspire people,

show them why they are important,

follow their work, guide them.

So that they can get better and better.

And if they get it wrong, show them the right way.

Give them the drill, the right measure.

Recognize when they did a good job so that they have the

pleasure of working with you.

Of giving you their best.

So that you can together achieve success because they know they

see that you are a fair person.

Someone who seeks everyone's growth.

And is not there simply to give an order, but to extract from them the best.

Someone who seeks everyone's growth.

And is not there simply to give an order.

Because the leader takes something from a person but also leaves something.

And now that you understand a little bit about what it means to be a leader, I

can tell you calmly that if you listen to what I told you several times,

you start putting it into your mind,

you start trying to develop it.

Develop these characteristics, develop your leader profile.

It is already enough to bring transformation in your life.

In relation to being a leader.

Whenever you interact with people, try to follow the steps.

Afterward, reflect on what happened.

Analyze if you acted like a good leader or not.

Reflect on your behavior after a meeting, for instance.

Or after a workday, have you been acting like a leader?

If not, what do you need to do to get better?

To help you to light your way, I will leave here five tips that, if

you understand, follow, seek with determination and courage, you will

certainly be able to become a good leader.

Ready?

So let's move to the next lecture.

101.
The first step is to forget your comfort zone and develop your communication.

Having good communication is an essential skill for any leader.

Because whoever leads other people is always communicating.

Whether with your team, customers, partners, managers, C-level executives.

Leadership involves a lot, a lot of communication.

Who officially works as a leader, for example, a project manager, has about 70%

of their tasks related to communication.

Whether by email, by phone, by voice, 70% of their effort they spend communicating.

So, express yourself well.

Be clear, objective, use your tone of voice, the correct body language,

and the right words, according to the occasion, according to

the people with who you are

communicating with.

Sometimes, you will need to be more formal.

And sometimes being formal might be a good idea to make people

around you more comfortable.

The more you have this ability, the more you will be valued, not only

as a leader but as a professional.

The more you develop this, the more valued you will be simply because most people

don't have great communication skills.

And you might have already noticed this.

Try to remember your colleagues at work, your college colleagues, maybe

even some of your college professors.

How many of them communicated well?

I bet that most of them were pretty bad.

Conversely, you might have also realized that there are some people

that seem like they

were born to be a good communicator because they're so engaging; so inspiring.

So, first of all...

if you already have good communication skills, great!

One item on your list for you to scratch.

You will only need to polish, refine those skills so that they get better and better.

But if you don't have good communication skills, which is more likely since most

people don't have good communication, given the statistics, I want to tell

you that it is possible; it is totally possible for you to develop this skill.

And to prove it to you, I'm going to tell you a little bit about my experience.

How I won and overcome this everyday challenge of communicating well.

When I decided that I had to develop my communication skills, first of

all, the first thing I had to do was: "get out of my comfort zone."

Put it in your head that you have this challenge.

You will have to get out of your comfort zone.

You will have to embrace this challenge and make it your priority.

Nobody can do that for you.

It is a personal skill that you need to develop within yourself.

When I was in high school and even in college, I wasn't really

interested in being a

good communicator.

I graduated in computer engineering, and at that point, I only cared

about the technical stuff.

I was excited to learn about developing software, electrical

circuits, calculus, but I didn't really care about communication

or anything related to leadership.

In fact, to be honest, I didn't really like to work in groups.

I would rather do everything by myself.

I went to college in the USA, and over there, I played on

the university's tennis team.

When I still had one semester to graduate, I couldn't play tennis

anymore due to restrictions from the league; just some bureaucracy stuff.

So, since I had the scholarship for playing tennis, the university decided

to keep giving me the scholarship, but instead of playing, I would work

as the tennis team's assistant coach.

At this point, things started to change a little bit.

I used to play for the team, and I was the number one player in singles and doubles.

But as I said, I didn't really care at that point about being seen as a leader.

So other guys were the team captain.

I had a great relationship with everybody on the team, all the guys and girls.

And I consider most of them as my good friends until today.

But I didn't really play the role of a leader.

So my communication skills were more tailored to be as good, as

good as it can be within friends.

But now, I was the assistant coach.

Of course, most of them were already my friends, but since I was in a coaching

position, they started to look at me as someone who could help them to evolve and

improve as a tennis player and person.

So, they would come and ask for advice about how to improve

their techniques, how to deal

with high-pressure moments

during matches.

They would come and talk to me when they were having a hard time,

for instance, with the coach.

So they would come for ask for help, for solutions, for guidance.

And also, when I was a player, my perspective was more selfish.

I only cared about winning.

When I was the assistant coach, I had a broader view and felt that

I had the mission to help the good players to be great ones.

And

also the not-so-good ones,

the ones who were seen as backups to become more motivated, to

become good players, be tougher, and to have a winner mentality.

That's when I started to improve my communication skills, I started

studying more about tennis coaching, leadership, and that's when I

ended up getting interested in project management and Scrum.

At the end of the semester, I got a job offer to come back to Brazil

and work as a Scrum Master , which is a leadership role, in a startup.

So picture this: I was young, just graduated, just starting up my career.

And I was working as a Scrum Master in a startup, which had

some of the best developers around.

Some of them are the best I've known until this day.

They were very experienced and knowledgeable.

A little intimidating, right?

I remember my first day at work.

Less than an hour after I arrived, I had to lead the first planning

meeting with the entire team.

And of course, I wasn't expecting this.

I thought my first days, my first weeks, I would have some

training or something more lighter.

But no, no.

First day, first hour, first meeting.

So, yes, I had to mature really fast.

However, I already had some experience communicating with

groups, given my assistant coach experience, so it helped a little bit.

Of course, when I started, I wasn't great.

However, I continuously improved, given the reflections that I

would make about my performance.

Fast forward, and a few years later, I already had a Tenure

Track professor position.

And I was teaching and traveling all around the world to

present talks and conferences.

So, I started to learn how to communicate better, first, dealing

with a few young tennis players, which some of them were already my friends.

I evolved and started to deal with more experienced, knowledgeable

people in the workplace; management, customers ... Then I became a

college professor and researcher and started to give talks worldwide.

You can see that it was like a stairway.

One step at a time.

It's not about building the wall.

It's about putting a brick.

And then, another one, you don't start trying to communicate

with a thousand people.

You start by mastering communicating with one person and then a group of people.

And then dealing with people in higher

positions, directors, managers,

customers, C-level executives, and so on.

It's a process.

Successful people are more used to being outside their

comfort zone than inside it.

Thus, even if you already consider yourself a good communicator, try

to get out of your comfort zone.

So, the first tip is if you need to develop your communication.

Don't miss an opportunity to practice.

You will get there.

If you want to go far and succeed, then get used to being

away from your comfort zone.

If you're a person who needs to develop your communication,

then look for challenges.

Don't wait for them to arrive!

Seek challenges, volunteer, to give talks.

Actively participate in meetings.

I remember that I trained my communication at every opportunity.

I remember that, before

going for my first

lecture ever, which was during the examinations to be hired as a professor,

I trained a dozen times the same lecture.

I had a lot of friends to watch my lectures and give me feedback.

I would watch myself in the mirror, start with the end goal in mind, even

if you're going to make a presentation to one person, pretend that's for

a 1000, and get really prepared.

I did it during a period.

And now I'm confident that I can speak in front of anybody.

Of course, I feel a little anxious when I'm stepping up on stage, you know, some

butterflies, but this is totally normal.

Once you're confident that you are prepared enough, things flow naturally.

This is what happened to me.

And I want it to happen to you too!

If you have the opportunity to speak on the birthday, speak to your

family, to present a job at college,

if you are still an university

student, to present three slides at your company, or anywhere.

Try to make

the best slides of your life!

Seek to speak

the best speech of your life!

The secret

to developing communication

is to practice.

A good idea is to also watch great public speakers, get specific tips with public

speaking professionals, things like your posture, what to do with your hands,

where to look when you're communicating.

So I encourage you to study about public speaking, but you need to practice.

It is okay if you don't go too well on your first attempts.

Do you think Michael Jordan was good when he tried to shoot

his first ball?

Of course

not!

The important thing is to have a growth mindset.

Use every opportunity possible to learn how to become a better communicator.

102.
It is a fact that developing communication skills is something that requires

more than a few minutes of training.

Still, specific techniques, incredibly, generate immediate results.

Let's start talking about them and start this course at full throttle.

In this lecture, I want to surprise you and prove, in practice, that you

can move from the place you are now and improve your communication skills.

In the following minutes, we will focus on how you can have a more

impactful and strategic communication.

You will improve your communication by only slightly adjusting some

phrases and words, which I am sure you have been using in your daily life.

For this purpose, we will follow only three steps.

The first step is to identify harmful speech patterns that

have hindered your communication.

The second step is to identify efficient speech patterns that you can use to

better express what you want to convey.

And the third step is to strengthen within your mind the speech

patterns define in step two.

To start this exercise, please, take a look at the spreadsheet attached to this

lecture as a resource, and notice that we have two lists: on the left side, we

have at least called "harmful", and on the right side, a list called "efficient."

We will start by thinking together about several expressions and

words that are harmful for our communication, but that we often use

in everyday life, both at work or home.

Next, we will identify the expression or new word that we will use to replace

that harmful or inefficient one that is sabotaging our communication.

Ready?

Let's go to practice, and you will understand this idea better.

I will start here with a controversial example: the first word that you

should eliminate from your expressions, especially at the workspace is

the word "idea"; that's right.

And why should you eliminate this word from your vocabulary?

Simply because no one cares about your ideas.

Have you ever stopped to think about it?

When you're talking with someone and want to solve a problem or even in a meeting

with other people, imagine what happens when I say this: "I think I have an idea."

Did I pass a message that I have a solution to the problem?

Have I transmitted confidence?

Did my message generate any impact?

Neither my verbal expression nor my body expression passed

any trustworthiness here.

To generate impact with your communication, you need to adjust

your vocabulary and use words and expressions appropriate to each context.

Are you at work?

Do you want to generate impact, to pass trustworthiness, to be

heard by everyone present, to have your message clearly received?

What people want to hear from you when they have a problem is a

solution, a proposition, a proper response, an answer to the problem.

So how about instead of saying, "I think I have an idea," saying," I

believe I have a solution for you."

You said what you wanted, that you have an idea.

Still, now you passed a totally different message, more serious, impressive..

Do you agree?

Let's go to the next examples.

How you feel about the expression "I think."?

Well, it is not that you cannot use it now and then.

The point is that "I think" is a weak expression that has no value because

anyone can think whatever he or she wants; for example, I can think

that the moon fits in my pocket, and nobody has anything to do with this.

Thus, don't use such a weak expression in a work meeting, because you want

others to have the impression that you have a relevant opinion to share.

Instead of using expressions like "I think the best solution is

solution X," say something like: "I believe this..., because of this..."

For example, "I believe that we must use solution X because I read about it, and

saw that there are some well-succeeded competitors that have already used

it in a similar context as ours."

Can you notice the difference in confidence, the credibility of

you saying, "I believe this...

because of this reason..."

instead of only saying "I think"?

Do you know what happens when you use this weak terms in your communication?

Probably you have been there at some point in your life.

You are in a conversation and then you give a solution, an idea, but

no one reacted to your speech.

Then, within 5 minutes, another person says exactly the same

thing, but speaking differently.

And everybody says, "Hey, great idea!

What a good solution."

Then you're like, "wait a minute.

I have just,...

you know,..

Nevermind."

This is why our list of harmful patterns versus efficient patterns is critical.

You must put it into practice.

You must frequently read it, study it and incorporate the efficient

patterns within your daily life.

Do you remember the three steps that I talked about at

the beginning of this lecture?

First, you identify harmful patterns in your daily communication.

Second, you identify efficient patterns that you must use, and that

will better express what you want.

And last, but not least, you must print out this list, put it on your bed's

mirror, and read it daily to reinforce in your mind efficient speech patterns

that you have defined in the second step.

Now, I recommend you stop watching the video lectures a little bit

and analyze the spreadsheet.

Add more patterns that you believe makes sense for you, and look at it daily.

Read it,absorb it, let these patterns enter your mind.

Incorporate them and practice them everyday in your communication.

And of course, if you need any help or suggestions, just shoot

me a message on the Q&A board.

And that will be more than happy to help.

Now.

Let's keep moving!

103.
The second step is about working on your motivation and optimism.

As a leader, you must symbolize the motivation of many who will be led by you.

So, if you're a pessimistic person, you can prepare yourself because

your team will also be pessimistic.

There will be people who do not believe, who give up easily.

If you are optimistic, you will have a team

that will be affected by

your optimism.

Of course, everything has to be balanced.

But it is incredible how our attitude as leaders, our faith,

that we will succeed in the

project, how our courage ignites, inspires

the people we lead our team, understand that you, as a leader, are a reference.

You are a mirror.

Will be the match that will ignite the flame of the rest of your team.

When people on your team get discouraged by a promotion that didn't come, a

salary increase that didn't come.

They will come looking for you.

And what should they

find?

Someone who will agree

that this is the end for them?

That there is no way out?

That is comfortable with failure?

That is satisfied with failure?

Of course not.

They must find someone optimistic someone with creativity to give them

a new vision, to give them a new option, a new path, another solution,

a new wave to achieve their goals.

Someone that won't let them be discouraged.

Won't let them give up.

So be motivated, be optimistic.

People are usually not optimistic.

By doing this, you will be a channel to ignite your team to be

motivated and confident every day.

And it's also important to say that being optimistic is not being foolish, okay?

To believe that if even if you do wrong, everything will turn out well.

No!

This is being a fool.

Being optimistic is about not giving up on the first barrier and not

letting your team to do it either.

It is about believing that you can find

a second alternative.

It's about chasing the second alternative.

It is about not accepting defeat without having tried all

the possibilities of victory.

I learned a lot of things on the

tennis court.

Imagine this situation...

you're losing—match point

to the other guy.

Just one more point, and he wins.

He's really close, right?

Victory seems so far from your reach.

But, guess what?

There's still one more point for him to

score.

So, are you going to

give up?

Of course not!

I remember

once that I was losing

to

this guy...

6x0, 4x0...

I was being massacred.

I was playing

the worst ever.

Horrible!

And he was getting everything in.

But I didn't give up.

I kept trying, I ended up losing, but they almost

turned the match around.

There

were other situations too, where I was losing match

point down.

And I still ended up

winning the match.

So,

if you're pessimistic,

negative, I can assure you one thing you will fail.

If you are optimistic, you always have the hope to

keep moving and succeed.

But also,

don't let your optimism blind you.

You need to be realistic and always analyze your surroundings, your

context, make the best decisions.

I also lost matches where I was winning

match points, and I lost.

It hurted a lot.

Most of the times, it was because I was too optimistic.

It felt like the match was already done.

Okay, so you've gotta be optimistic always, but always be smart

enough to analyze the situation and make the best decisions.

During the course, we saw many techniques that can be used to

generate motivation in the team.

One is the team having a vision about the expected result.

Why is it important?

People in their nature they need to feel useful and understand

their importance in the project.

In order to be happy and motivated and give their best.

So I'm going to give you here a great advice.

As a project manager, as a leader, share key information about

your project with your team.

For instance, the vision can be shared during a project kickoff

meeting, the first project meeting.

Make sure to cease the first days of the project, boost your team by

letting them know the goals,

the priorities, and always make sure that they are aware of their

role and their importance, but also the importance of each other team

member for the project to succeed.

And after the kickoff meeting, to reinforce and motivate them even

more, you can call each one of your team members or other stakeholders in

particular.

And talk individually about their

importance, and that you are counting on them for the project to succeed.

Do you realize how much this simple thing can transform someone's

behavior within a project?

So, I don't know about your background.

If you already have an experience doing this, or if you're just starting

your career or still in college.

But if you have the experience, you know what I'm talking about.

If you haven't already,

trust me, train your communication, learn and develop the skills,

the characteristics of a

good leader.

And the time will

come when you will have the kickoff meeting of the project.

You will see how it works.

People get even more inspired.

You share the challenge with them and make clear their importance, the impact that

they have to lead the project to success.

This is something very powerful, and it works.

You will generate motivation and optimism in your team from

the beginning of your project.

Now, it is clear that it's

important that this remains throughout

the entire project.

You will not, for instance, in the middle of the project, your team makes

a mistake or the project is delayed, unforeseen events are happening, and then

suddenly you throw everything in the air.

No, you aren't the person who will hold the torch.

You must be the person who will look for

alternatives.

Who will say we were

wrong, but calm down.

Let's see what's the best way for us to recover from this error.

It will still work.

There will still be time.

Come on there.

We will do our best.

I count on you!

Do this, do that, talk to someone, do this here, try something else.

You need to direct them.

Guide them, encourage them.

You need to keep your team always in a good mood, always with

motivation, always with energy.

Of course, there will be hard times.

There'll be times when you will not even have the strength to do

this, but these must be

exceptions.

Normally, most of the time, you will be able to be a motivated person and

optimistic person, will inspire other

people, and make her team always

motivated.

A team that

doesn't give up.

Even when they mess up, they remain motivated and optimistic, doing their

best, believing that they will succeed.

Recover from the mistakes and complete the project successfully.

And that is why motivation and optimism are part of the profile of a good leader.

104.
Few people know what empathy is and its importance, but the world

would be a thousand times better if people were more empathetic.

So tip three is: develop your empathy.

But, what is empathy?

Simply translated, it is the ability to put yourself in the shoes of another

person, is trying to understand what she's feeling, what she desires.

By developing empathy,

you can guide people better, understand them better.

In the case of leaders, empathy is mandatory.

Leaders need to be experts at this.

They must be empathetic.

When I am leading, I like to periodically call my team members just

to hear from them how they're doing.

If they're satisfied, if they're motivated, and then what do I do?

I try to practice my empathy to get better and better.

I try to understand what are their needs, what makes them happy,

what motivates each of them.

Then after I have a good understanding, I put myself in their

place to understand where they're

going.

What is the most important thing for them?

I try to give tips on how they can improve.

Set goals with them.

You collaborate with them to define how to reach their goals.

I really try to put myself in their shoes so that I can understand them better.

So that I can align what they desire with what I wish for them within the project.

And then, I can have an alignment between my expectations and their expectations.

Do you know how to have the best of your team members?

You put yourself in their shoes and understand what are their desires.

What are their dreams?

Their dreams of life, not just about the company.

Is it getting married, buying a car, owning a home, making a trip?

After you understand their desires, you do everything possible to align

their desires with the company's goals.

If you're able to do this, the team members are not going to be working

only to achieve the company's revenue, which is what the company wants.

They will be working for their dream.

And as a consequence, the company will also be successful.

And how does this work?

Imagine, for instance, that I come to you...

you are my team member.

And then I ask you, what is your dream?

And you tell me that your dream is to go to France.

You want to spend 15 days in France.

And then I ask you how much does it cost?

And you say $10,000.

And then I tell you, dude, look, this year, our goal is to earn something.

If you can do your part, if you can achieve this goal here, your

personal goal, you will have your trip at the end of the year.

Next January, you will be in France, and you all spend your 15 days

that you have been dreaming of.

What did I just do?

I try to understand your dream, your desire, what drives you.

And then try to align your dream with the goals for my project,

the goals for my organization.

This is one of the most famous and successful techniques for you to

get the support of your followers, the support of your employees.

They will give their best to the organization, their maximum.

The employee is dream.

Be a promotion, a salary, increase a vacation, a new

house, getting a PhD degree.

But if you have the necessary empathy and understand what is their desires,

what are the ambitions of each one of your team members understand their

needs, understand their profile.

You will work in favor of it, and you will not only have a goal

accomplished, but friendship trust, gratitude, and you'll see your

colleague happy to be doing their best.

This is one of the great characteristics of a leader.

The ability to make people do their best in a healthy, motivated, and happy way.

So, learn, practice, try to put yourself in other people's shoes.

You can even practice this at home with your wife, with your children, your

colleagues, your brothers, try to put yourself in their shoes because when

you do it, you will better understand the reasons for their decisions.

You will understand them better.

You will know how to satisfy them, and you will be better on

alligning their goals with yours.

And then with empathy comes confidence too.

Because look, if I call my team members for a conversation, if I try to know

how they're feeling, how they're doing, if I tryto understand them, then, well,

their wills, their dreams within the company, where do they want to go?

How can I help them better?

I gain their trust.

I gain their companionship.

They will know that I care for them.

They will know that I'm working for them.

And so they will work for me.

They will know that I want their best.

They will know that I value them and that I want them to work at my company.

Be part of my team to grow with me.

I want to help them grow.

I want to achieve success with them and I want to make their dreams come

true, but I will also align this with the dreams of my organization.

This is a very winning strategy.

It clearly requires on your part, a development related to empathy.

It is not technical.

It's not something you hear here and you can easily practice tomorrow.

It is something that requires you to practice continuously.

You need to continue to try to understand people, better, try

to put yourself in their place.

Try to understand why your team member ministry decision at some point, for

instance, but on second thought, what about if you were in his place in the

same context, would you have done the same and maybe you overreacted with him?

What did the mistake from your part?

It is about going deep and try to understand why people

are behaving in a certain way.

By being empathetic, you will be a better leader, greatly

enhancing your influence on people.

You will treat people fairly with time with your experience, dealing with people.

If you try hard, you can become better and better, which are empathy,

thus enhancing your potential.

As a great leader.

Remember a leader is about making people follow your lead because they want to.

So by being empathetic, it's kind of like you're making them become closer to you.

You're more connected to them.

And this is a necessary trait that you need to become a good leader.

People won't follow you if they don't feel connected with you.

105.
Having good communication is generating in people the understanding that you

want them to have and the feeling and impact you want them to feel.

Achieving good communication is not a one-way street.

Conversely, it is more like a bumpy two-way street, with electronic

speed bumps and obstacles.

Such complexity exists because people, including ourselves, have different

perceptions about what they hear and see.

So when we talked to other people, whether in a one-to-one conversation

or a presentation, intention is what you expect people to understand

and feel about what you said.

Reality is what they really understood and felt about what you said, got it?

Again, intention is what you expect people to understand

and feel about what you said.

Reality is what they really understood and felt about you said.

We, in general, judge ourselves given our intentions.

However, other people judge us by the impact that we generate on them.

For example, imagine a man that loves his wife but sometimes

is not very gentle with her.

One time she told him, dear, can I have an ice cream over there?

And he answered, of course, yes.

Just go and get it.

And her reaction was like, okay, I don't think I want it anymore.

Let's just go home.

His intention was good.

He really wanted his wife to have the ice cream.

However, the way he communicated, especially considering his

gesture, caused her to be inhibited in getting the ice cream.

And many times, what comes after a scene like this is a fight because

of previous lousy communication.

It would have been totally different if he, if he had answered

something like, sure, honey, do you want me to go get it for you?

What flavor do you want?

I know that at this point, you might be pondering on many

situations that you have been too...

where your intent and the real impact did not really match.

I gave you an example from personal life, but the same

issue frequently happens at work.

So write it down.

Your intention doesn't matter.

What matters is your impact on other people.

We tend to judge ourselves and defend ourselves based on our intention.

However, our job is to understand how other people will receive our message

by understanding their perception.

Let me tell you a story.

I used to work with a manager and he had some communication issues.

For instance, during meeting, when someone suggested a solution different from his,

he would stare at the person seriously.

And he was like this.

And then what happened?

The team became inhibited to give new ideas, because it seemed

like he got really annoyed.

This impact was caused by the faces he made while others were

talking throughout the meeting.

However, I knew him.

He was a nice guy who enjoyed being challenged and criticized.

The problem is that when he was concentrated, he would frown

his eyebrow while listening.

And he would stare at the person because he was thinking about

what the person was speaking.

He was not trying to intimidate the person.

Thus, he did not intend to discourage the team from innovating.

However, the intention is not reality; and, it doesn't matter.

In another meeting, he interrupted and said something like, "So,

this is happening for two months, and I didn't know anything."

And everybody was like paralyzed and intimidated by the rest of

the meeting because they thought that he was complaining and

blaming them for the failure.

Still, given that he was not very involved in the project, his

intention was to assume the guilt; he was not trying to blame the team.

However, again, intention is not the reality.

To wrap up this lecture, my final message here is to, whenever communicating to a

person or group of people, and you don't get the impact that you have planned,

don't think: what is wrong with them?

What is wrong with these people?

Instead, ask yourself, "how can I improve my communication and

be more clear and impactful?".

Exercising this has to do with our past lectures: develop your empathy,

put yourself in your audience shoes.

Understand their background.

Doing this is the first step to figure out how to best communicate with them.

Sounds good?

Great!

So let's move to the next lecture.

106.
Let's talk about the types of leaders and understand why you must not choose one.

Maybe you will notice that right now,

one of them will best suit you, but

at the end of the next lecture, I want you to understand why you

should not label yourself as one of the available types of leaders.

I don't know what your profile is...

So I would like to comment with you about each of the existing

profiles and give you a hint on how you should view each one of them.

Knowing these profiles will also help you to understand a little bit

more about the art of leadership.

The first

leader type that we're going

to discuss is the demanding one.

It is the person who observes all the details, not missing any slip.

Nothing goes unnoticed with this leader.

They understand that in order to work.

They have to cover

all the gaps, and there are

no spaces for mistakes.

They are very critical, observant, and perfectionist.

They believe that the only path to success is

excellence.

And the next

type of leader is the

autocratic.

The autocratic leader is

one who does not encourage effective participation in

projects.

They usually

make all the necessary decisions and often oppress the team members.

They see team members as

competitors, not as collaborators, partners.

They always conduct processes with a lot of energy, a lot of vigor.

But they don't value the skills, knowledge, and results

of the people that they lead.

So they end up creating a work environment in which professionals are overcharged.

So you have an environment of lots of demands and requests

but little recognition.

And this causes discomfort, in addition to limiting your team's

performance.

You just complain and demand.

You never recognize.

So this autocratic profile is much more for the boss than for the leader,

okay?

The next type of leader is the liberal.

The liberal leader is one who gives employees the freedom to

exercise their functions without much interference from the leader.

Employees themselves are responsible for managing the results of their work.

It is a way for the leader to show confidence in the capacity

of each of the team members.

However, you have to be careful with that.

Because sometimes if you're too relaxed, if you give them too much freedom, it

might happen that your team is going to start taking some attitudes of

immaturity because they're just, you know, too far away, disconnected from you.

On the

other hand, a liberal leader

gives freedom to good people to stand out.

So they end up discovering talents.

And the next type is the visionary leader.

I

really like this profile.

They have a great sense of opportunity and has latent optimism.

There that

enterprise guy who anticipate situations,

having the courage to take risks.

This type of leader recognizes the importance of the collaborators, of the

team, for the project to be successful.

They always seek to motivate the team to achieve good results.

So this is the visionary leader.

And

I confess that it

is the profile

that I like the most.

The next one is the democratic leader.

The democratic leader, as the name implies, is one that allows followers,

the team members, to participate in decisions more effectively.

They make important decisions in group.

They believe in ideas.

They accept criticism and suggestions because they believe that this is

important for the evolution of projects, the team, and the organization as a whole.

This opening of spaces for

dialogue, this effective communication, and the feedback that they

receive from the team, it brings a lot of growth and guarantee better results.

Now, the concern about the democratic leader is precisely not to lose control.

Because since they give a lot of

openness for all people to

participate, they suddenly can get into chaos, easily.

Because sometimes you need to give some balance to the team.

And then we have the "coach leader".

The "coach leader" is the one who can identify the capacities

of each one of the team members.

He's able to understand what each person's

capacity is, what each

person does best.

And uses this capacity to help maximize the results of the company's project.

They present challenges, motivating news.

They create a collaborative environment for entrepreneurs.

They care about each individual professional.

So coach leaders, they really follow

the coach's principles

of identifying what are the weaknesses and the strengths of each team member.

And they seek to explore the strengths and improve the

weaknesses to maximize the results.

They follow each

team member closely, motivating each one of

them.

So that they have confidence in their own work and by having good confidence,

they will reach excellent results.

Great!

At this point, you know about the different types of leaders.

In the next lecture, you will understand why you shouldn't

label yourself as one of them!

See you there!

107.
And now that you know about the different profiles of leaders, I want to tell

you why you shouldn't choose a profile.

Don't label

yourself!

It's just because

none of these profiles is complete enough for you to choose to deal with

all types of contexts and people.

In fact, when you look at these profiles,

you might imagine situations

where it will be better to have a coach or a visionary leader.

That's why you should think about yourself as being like more flexible.

And being able to walk around all these profiles when needed.

You need to be charismatic, integral, correct.

You need to know how to listen, know how to speak at the right time, know

how to motivate people, to identify the weaknesses and strengths of each

of the team members individually.

You need to create a connection between them.

You need to be empathetic.

You need to give them guidelines for correcting their weaknesses

and maximizing their strengths.

Furthermore, a leader shares experiences.

It does not compete with the team members.

They don't see the team members as competitors, but

as colleagues, as partners.

These are the characteristics that the company wants for a leader.

Not necessarily a company wants a visionary or democratic leader.

They want someone that can maximize the chances of success.

And usually, you'll have to know a little bit of everything.

So sometimes, you need to be that leader

that earns the respect

of your

followers and helps them to resolve matters in an optimistic,

creative, motivated, energetic, confident way.

But sometimes, you need to act more like a boss.

If you have already been a leader, you understand what

I'm going to talk about here.

Sometimes you have to deal with people that they only care about receiving

the wages at the end of the month.

So, you know, it's not possible to motivate them.

So with these people often the effect of the leader, the

weapons of a good leader, do

not work.

Being empathetic,

trying to motivate them will not work because they are the problem.

So you really

need to command them, tell

them what to do and how to do otherwise.

They will just sit there the entire day and do nothing.

Because they really don't care.

Unfortunately, there are people who are very

difficult to accept guidance, to accept be inspired,

to trust their leaders.

They are very hard to get motivated.

So it's not easy to deal with them.

So in cases where you see that there's a lot of lack of commitment,

then you need to be a little boss.

You need to be

tougher, more incisive, talk less

and just make them work.

And you know, if nothing works...

well, sometimes you have to fire them.

So, what you need to understand is that you need to know, depending on

the situation, which profile suits the best, which one will be more effective.

So your goal is not about choosing a leadership style

but to making things work.

Getting work done in the most efficient way.

Therefore, you need to learn how to act like any one of

the profiles that we have just

discussed.

And the main tip

that I want you to understand is for you to reflect a little about the types of

profiles that we have just discussed here.

Listen, a little more about these

characteristics.

Review and analyze which

ones you have.

For

the good and the bad.

Are you more like an autocratic leader?

If so, perhaps you should look for more characteristics of

these other types of leadership.

And maybe decrease or eliminate some characteristics of the autocratic leader.

If you're more like a liberal leader, think a little bit.

Have you ever lost control of a project because of this?

Have you ever felt that for being distant, your team is not connected with you?

If this is the case, then maybe stop being so liberal, give some of your time

to your team so that you can understand them better, and create a connection.

So analyze all these profiles very well and try to understand where you are, where

are you standing right now, and try to identify where do you need to improve.

We will hardly be able to achieve perfection in all those profiles.

Of course not.

But you just need to keep trying to improve step by step.

Try to improve your empathy, motivation, communication

skills.

And the years are gonna go by and

based on your experience, you will see that you are going

to get better and better.

You will be inspiring.

You will be inspiring people.

In other words, you will be a better leader.

108.
To develop as a leader...

in fact, to develop in your personal and professional life, a great tip that

I give you is: find your references!

So, what do I mean by references?

You need to learn how to be an observer.

So myself...

I met people who are excellent communicators.

Teachers, advisors, managers...

maybe you work with someone that is a great leader.

The way she speaks, her vision, her attitude, the look on her

eyes, the way people react to her.

If this is the case, use her as a reference.

If you're about to make a talk at a conference, go to

YouTube, watch a Ted Talk.

Observe the renowned speakers doing their job.

How do they start the talk?

How do they move around the stage?

What type of language do they use?

What do they do with their hands?

How do they interact with the audience?

So what is my final message here?

Do not miss the opportunity to observe.

If you want to be a good leader, then watch a good leader work.

How do they lead?

How do they address their team?

How do they give feedback to their team?

How do they motivate their team?

The best way for you to do this is by looking at your own

leader if you have a good one.

If you don't have a good leader, then you can observe

the leaders from other projects.

Unfortunately, in this case, you will not have direct access,

daily contact with a good leader.

But, you know, it's good to observe the bad leaders too.

Try to understand why do they have a disconnected team?

Why so many people who work for him go work elsewhere.

Why he doesn't have the capability of retaining attracting good people?

Maybe he's not empathetic.

Maybe it's because he never has time to talk to interact with the team.

So the team is always feeling disconnected from him.

And this, of course, has a direct impact on the team's performance and

their satisfaction with their job.

Generally, everybody works with good and bad leaders and, you know,

working with good people, you'll realize that they make mistakes.

Nobody's perfect.

So don't try just to copy them.

You need to analyze them.

You need to learn what they do well and what suits you so that

you can copy their best behavior and feed it into your personality.

As a result, you will learn a little bit here, a little bit there, a little

bit with each one of the good and the bad leaders that you interact with.

So they will be your reference.

On the next lecture, I will give you one more tip, about

how to improve as a leader!

See you there!

109.
To wrap up this section, here goes my final tip:

find your mentors.

Mentors are those people who do something better than you and who can guide you.

For example, you can have a friend, a project manager, or

a software engineer that's more experienced or more knowledgeable

than you, so he can guide you.

You can talk periodically.

He can give you feedback.

Therefore he's being your mentor, your reference, and

he will help you to develop.

Mentors don't have to be older than you.

They just gotta be better at you in a given task, maybe communication,

programming, project management, organizing his personal finance, okay?

And also, please, don't forget to practice.

Practice everything that you have learned in this course.

And such further read about leadership.

Talk to experts.

Talk to your friends who are already leaders.

But practice, do not be afraid.

Leadership is something that you learn when you practice.

If you need to improve your communication, then as a great speaker says, when you

have the opportunity to speak, speak!

Be it at a birthday party, with all your friends, be it at a

small event with like five people or a big event with 500 people.

Don't miss an opportunity, have the ambition to go there and speak.

The same thing applies to all the other characteristics.

Always practice, and don't forget, always reflect on what you did

and try to improve continuously.

Whenever possible, ask the people around you for feedback because

it is very difficult for us to have a perfect view of ourselves.

We are always biased, especially when we're talking about our own defects.

If I ask you right now about your three main qualities, well, most of you are

going to be really fast to answer me.

But if I ask you about your three defects, that's going to be a little bit harder.

This is even a classic question in interviews.

Because it is much more difficult to see our defects...

So, you know what, just ask people for feedback and tell them to be honest.

For this purpose, you need to accept the feedback.

Don't be mad at them or upset if they tell you that you did something wrong.

See it as a learning opportunity and not as a failure.

Never, never underestimate the importance of listening to what

other people have to say about you.

Okay.

And with this, we wrap up this section.

Great job.

110.
As a leader, your main goal is to conduct people to achieve the planned objectives.

For this purpose, you need to learn how to delegate work.

It seems pretty simple.

You take a set of tasks to be done and tell people to do it.

At the end of the process, each one delivers his or her tasks and you succeed.

It sounds pretty easy, right?

Not really!

Poor delegation is one of the main causes for organizations to

not achieve the planned results.

And, who gets the blame?

Poor leaders!

If people on leadership positions, such as project managers, knew how

to delegate tasks, organizations would be way more productive.

Thus, if you want to become an effective leader, you must

learn how to delegate work.

In the next lecture,

you will learn what types of delegation exists.

I'll see you there.

111.
It is time for you to learn the three types of delegation: Gofer

or Micromanagement, Dump & Run, and Stewardship Delegation.

Next, I will describe each one of them.

And as an exercise, try to figure out which one is our current style.

Let's start talking about gofer.

This type gets its name because you have the leader telling people to

go for task one, go for task two,

and so on...

Instead of giving people a big picture, a vision of the results to be achieved.

THe leader focuses on describing the exact step-by-step to

be followed and continuously checking if the person is done.

For instance, let's assume that I hired a video editor to edit my videos.

Here, I will tell the editor exactly what to do for each video, where to cut

the videos, which elements or effects to add when to add them, where to add

them, the exact position on the screen.

Which font to use, which colors to use.

I would tell her exactly what to do.

The editor would merely follow my instructions.

It is almost like programming a computer, telling it exactly what to do.

This type of delegation is the most annoying one because

it displays a lack of trust.

Further, people that are micromanaged tend to not care about the intended

objective but only on the task at hand.

This happens because they don't have a big picture, a vision

of the goals to be achieved.

They don't feel as they own the results.

Thus, they feel that as long as they're done with whatever was

told them to do, they're fine.

What if I mess up on the instruction for my video?

What if I tell the editor to add an element that doesn't

make any sense for the video?

What would the editor do?

If she feels micromanaged,

if she feels that she doesn't own the work, she's probably not motivated

enough to care about the results.

She would just follow my instructions, and whatever goes wrong, she's going

to say, Hey, it's not my fault.

I'm just doing what Mirko told me to do.

How do you think micromanaged people react to unexpected issues?

They don't react.

They feel like it's not their job to figure out what to do.

It is the leader's job to describe all the scenarios that might occur and

the associated step-by-step solutions.

Thus, gofer might work for very simple, repeatable tasks.

One example is a company that I used to work for when I was very young.

My job and the job of hundreds of others was to classify if the results for

Google searches were relevant or not.

So we had this huge, very detailed guideline that we needed to

follow exactly as described.

We had no idea how Google would use our results.

We just cared about finishing our daily tasks and getting paid.

The company would make sure to micro-manage every task.

Making sure that we were getting done fast enough and with enough quality.

Otherwise, we would get fired.

The company didn't expect us to be super motivated.

It just wanted us to get the tasks done.

One at a time.

We acted like task doers to complement Google's algorithm.

Apparently, the gofer approach works well for them.

Because the work was highly predictable and they had a bunch of people doing

the same tasks, so they could easily compare the performance of each worker.

However, notice that the gofer approach is not suited for most environments because

instead of taking the most of people, you reduce them to task doers, which

will make them get demotivated and get annoyed by your very presence as a leader.

Further, if you have many tasks dependent on each other, you, as

the leader, will have to control and synchronize everything.

Thus, it only works to the point where you have enough time

to control such dependencies.

I like to think of gofer delegation as a ventriloquist.

Because there's a very limited amount of tasks to be done that

you can control, and you take away from people their capabilities to

input and come up with solutions.

Have you ever been in this situation, micromanaged or micromanaging people?

How was your experience?

Think about these questions for a little bit, and then move to the

next lecture, where you will learn about the dump & run delegation.

See you there.

112.
The next type of delegation is Dump & Run.

Here, the leader quickly tells the person what to do.

Doesn't make sure that the person knows how to proceed and disappears.

This type is also called delegation by abdication.

You dump responsibility to other people and run away.

It is very common in scenarios in which the leader had a bad

experience with micromanagement and wants to radically change things.

Or when you are excessively confident in people's abilities.

Or even when you think that there is a common agreement of what needs

to be done when there isn't one.

You don't define deadlines, scope, authority, such as what

decisions can the person make.

You leave everything for the person to figure out without

any guidance or support.

The result is usually having people that are lost.

They don't know what to do.

Worse than that, they don't know if they should look for their leaders to ask

for help because they think that it's their fault for not knowing what to do.

The outcome is obvious.

Lots of rework, waste.

People getting demotivated, and the necessary results are not achieved.

Okay.

Now let's move to the next lecture and talk about the last type of delegation.

I'll see you there.

113.
Finally, the balance.

The ideal one.

Stewardship leadership.

This type is based on three pillars.

Vision, restriction, and support.

You share the vision, the results to be achieved.

You enable them to feel part of the team and that they own the results.

However, you define the necessary restrictions, such as deadline, standards

to be followed, or reporting mechanisms.

Thus, you give them the freedom to define the procedure and methods, given that they

conform with the imposed restrictions.

Let them be aware of the decisions that they can make, what

degree of freedom do they have.

It is very important to make this clear.

Two things might happen.

If people are not aware of the degree of freedom, they have for making decisions.

First, they might be interrupting you frequently to ask stuff that

they could decide without your input, making you waste your time.

Second, they might make decisions that go against the expected standards or

templates, which might cause rework.

Because they'll have to fix it.

This will make you waste time, too.

But even worse, they will get annoyed because of the rework.

To avoid these issues, make sure that the task doers know all the task restrictions

so that they can make better decisions.

And, finally.

Give the people the necessary support.

Do they already know all needed to get the job done?

If yes, great!

Let them do their job.

If not, share with them the necessary know-how and then let them

define how to get the work done.

Despite the situation, make yourself available to help them figure out any

issues or impediments that might come up.

Let's see an example, for instance, for editing a video.

Instead of telling the editor exactly how to edit the video, I can start

by sharing with her three examples of videos that I think are awesome

and explain what makes them awesome.

Then, instead of telling her exactly where to cut the video or add

elements or effects, I could give her additional information, as most, as

she needs to understand the expected quality and style for the video.

A restriction could be that the screen can not be frozen without

movement for at most five seconds.

If this is the case for the original video, figure out the best solution, which

might be, add an effect, add an image, add objects or elements on the screen.

Is the editor's job to figure out what to do.

By doing this, I'm not telling her exactly what to do.

I'm just giving her constraints, restrictions on what is good

and engaging video for me.

However, it is up to her to figure out how to solve each possible issue.

I'm making her responsible for the vision but within agreed restrictions.

Finally, I make her accountable before her work by setting deadlines with her.

Instead of telling her to get it done on Monday, I ask her, when

can you get done with this desk?

Of course, we might end up negotiating a little bit, but I let her define when she

will be able to deliver the work whenever possible with the expected quality.

Further, I define all the reporting mechanisms to avoid having me

annoying her with: how is this task?

Are you done yet?

When are you going to be done?

For this purpose, I might ask her, for instance, to update a daily

spreadsheet or task management tool.

Or, you know, just send me a weekly report.

I usually have people to send me daily reports.

Not because I want to know exactly what they've been doing during the day, but

because I want to know if there are any problems or impediments for which they

need my intervention, they need my help.

This is one very important thing make yourself available to help

them time stuck is time wasted.

Great.

You now know about the three types of delegation.

Given this, how should you improve your work delegation skills?

This is a topic of our next lecture.

I'll see you there.

114.
In this lecture, let's wrap up talking about delegating work.

As we have discussed in previous lectures, there are three types of delegation,

Gofer, Dump & Run, and Stewardship.

Gofer gives too many instructions on how to get the work done and might cause

people not to care about the end result.

Dump & Run gives people too much freedom.

Lacking enough support or instructions, people might get lost.

Ideally, you would go for the Stewardship Delegation.

Because it has a good balance between giving people the freedom to define how

to get work done but with enough support.

However, as discussed in previous lectures, other

types might sometimes work.

Thus, instead of choosing a type, focus on the pillars.

Whenever you're delegating work, ask yourself three questions: first, do they

know what is the result to be achieved?

Second, are they aware of the task restrictions, deadlines,

standards, reporting mechanisms, decision-making freedom...

Make sure that everything is transparent and make sure to

not transmit lack of trust.

And third, do they know how to get the work done?

If not, provide training.

And be there for them along the way.

Sounds good?

Try to adopt each aspect of delegation and observe the results.

I am sure that learning how to delegate work will make you

shine as an effective leader.

115.
Welcome!

Now that you have an overview, of a good leader's characteristics

and how to improve on that.

In this section, you will learn two special techniques to adopt

RIGHT NOW on your projects.

Maximizing their chances of success, and of course, making

you a more valuable professional.

The first one is the Project Kick-off Meeting.

It's a great practice to engage your team, get their buy-in, and

create an environment of trust.

Making sure that your team collaborates as a unit to achieve your project's goal.

Later on...

you will learn about the Lessons Learned.

Which is a deeply valuable practice used by highly effective

organizations such as NASA.

For each of these techniques, you will learn all the necessary

theories but focusing on putting them into practice right away and

in the most efficient way possible.

Are you Ready?

So let’s move to our next lecture.

See you there!

116.

In this lecture, I want to introduce you to a simple and efficient technique:

the "Project Kick-off Meeting."!

However, before talking about it, let me explain you the problem.

A project is about the team.

It is about the team being effective and efficient to achieve the project's goals.

A problem faced by most companies is that the team, the people, lack enough

information about the project in hand.

What is its vision?

What are the goals?

This lack of context causes them to question themselves,

why am I doing this task?

At the end of the day, the only answer that they have is: I am doing

this because someone told me to.

And, well, this is not very encouraging.

As a result, you will have people that feel like they are task doers, instead

of intelectually capable human beings.

This situation causes them to get desmotivated, and this might directly

affect the project's results.

And, guess what?

the rate of failing projects is astonishing, mostly

due to leadership issues.

I am sure that you don't want to be on this position, that is why, I am going

to teach you a simple, but effective way of starting the project having

everybody with the correct mindset!

The solution is to hold a Kick-off meeting!This meeting is a powerful

weapon to gain your team's trust, give them a shared goal, and motivate the

involved people to work as a real team!

Each individual should leave the meeting, feeling as an essential

factor for the project's success and in line with the project's goals!

Pay attention!

Never forget this!

When working with a team, You are dealing with human beings!

Sometimes, we might think that because everyone's getting paid...

they will automatically be 100% motivated and give their best!

But, in practice, it isn't so simple!

People need special kind of motivation!

no matter how well they get paid.

They need to be challenged and to feel important.

They need to understand the why behind their activities!

The Kick-Off meeting!

has two main purposes.

First, to set expectations.

And, second, motivate the project team, boost its morale!

At this point, you understand the motivation for running kick off meetings,

but how to conduct an effective one?

The answer for this question is the topic of the next lecture!

See you there!

117.
In this lecture, you will learn how to conduct a project kickoff meeting.

First, notice that there are two types: client and internal kickoff meetings.

A client kickoff meeting, as the name suggests, involves the

project's clients, if there are any.

Notice that some projects are internal and don't involve people

outside of the organization.

Internal kickoff meetings involve the project team and your organization's

internal stakeholders, which include people that can affect

or be affected by the project.

For internal projects, it's the only kickoff meeting to be held.

However, if your project has an external client or customer, you might want to have

an internal kickoff meeting before having the client one so that the project team

is aligned before meeting with the client.

Let's start talking about this one.

First, let me give you the greatest tip ever.

Don't use the project kickoff to lay off information.

You might be wondering, what do you mean, Mirko?

Do you know that feeling of being in a meeting and thinking, why am I here?

Why didn't they just send me an email with this information?

I have been there a lot.

If it's a one-way communication, share a document, send an email don't

waste people's time with a meeting.

This is a horrible way of starting a project.

The kickoff meeting should, whenever possible, be collaborative,

setting up your team for success.

To achieve this, you got to do some preparation.

First, share background project information with the participants.

With enough time ahead of the meeting, you can include here: their project goals,

timeline, scope, communication strategy, and the main risks so that everybody has

enough context for the project kickoff.

Second, if you're planning to have specific questions addressed to the

participants, send the questions to them before the meeting so that they

can plan the best answers properly.

Third, if you think that some questions will be raised, prepare the answers

and necessary supporting documents.

Maybe a couple of slides to answer them the best way possible during the meeting.

And finally, set up the meeting's agenda.

As a rule of thumb, I would say that to plan it to last at most one hour.

People usually get very bored after one hour in a meeting.

Also is schedule the meeting ahead of time to make sure everybody can plan properly.

And of course, plan the meeting.

The meeting must be conducted following a plan.

Failing to plan is planning to failure.

The kickoff meeting is expansive, and it's your opportunity to uplift your

team's morale early in the project.

Don't underestimate its importance.

Given this, let's talk about the agenda.

The structure depends on the project, but the most include the five why's:

who, what, where, when, why, and how.

Given this, I'm going to suggest that in the agenda here, but feel

free to adapt it to your context.

The first thing to consider is to set the stage.

Separate at most five minutes, to explain to everybody the

meeting's, goals and structure.

If you have worked with this project's client in the past, you can

start by letting the team know the client's style and work preferences,

which might include, for instance, reporting mechanisms and frequency.

Then, give the people the opportunity to introduce themselves,

focusing on their role and what they'll deliver in this project.

You can add here an icebreaker activity by asking them to, for instance,

tell a project or a story, or things that went wrong in past projects

and what they have learned from it.

Separate around 5 and 10 minutes for this part depending on the team size.

Later, it is time to bring the team and align the perception

of the project's goals.

This is about coming with the why behind the project.

What motivates the project?

Why is it important to the organization?

Here, for instance, you could facilitate a session for the

participants to come up with an elevator pitch or a vision statement.

And, it should last around 10 minutes.

Let's suppose that your company was hired for a project about training

25 novice software developers in artificial intelligence technologies.

The client's goal was to at the end of the process, hire as most people as possible.

The vision could be something like this.

For a given customer, this project solves a problem of recruiting software

developers with expertise in developing artificial intelligence-enabled systems.

For your organization, this project can be important because it opens the door

for other future training projects with this company and other tech companies.

At this point, everybody will be aligned, understanding why the project exists

and why it is vital to the organization.

And if it's the case for the client, the next step could be to define success.

Here, you could ask the participants to come up with

success indicators and targets.

For instance, for our example project, what is success?

Teaching all the planned content on time.

What level of expertise is expected for the students at the end of the project?

Notice that the idea here, again is to bring the team

into a common understanding.

Reserve around 10 and 15 minutes for this step.

Next, you could clarify the scope.

Reserve an additional 10 minutes.

For instance, you could give them a canvas divided between in scope and out

of scope and ask them to fill it up.

For our example, we could have within the project scope, preparing the content,

teaching the lectures, preparing and conducting learning evaluation activities,

mentoring or coaching the students, which artificial intelligence technologies

and tools should be covered, and so on.

Out of scope, could be recruiting students, because another organization

is responsible for this activity.

At the end of the process, you should be able to resolve any scope

conflicts, make it things crystal clear.

Then, you can clarify who is responsible for what if it is the case.

The main point here is to have the team to understand the importance of each people

and how their work affect each other.

Since your project here is for a training program, you could identify

who are the instructors for each topics, who's going to mentor or

coach the students, and so on.

The next point here is what's often missed on kickoff meetings.

But I think that is an essential one.

Ask people about how they feel about the project in general.

You could go with a simple thumbs up and thumbs down mechanism here.

If there are thumbs down, try to identify the issues and solve

them if they are easy to solve.

If someone comes up with a risk that no one thought about it yet,

and no one has a good answer.

You could schedule a follow-up meeting for this part of the meeting.

Five minutes should be enough.

Then, finally, close the meeting, ask if anyone has any questions, and answer them.

Also, make sure you leave a positive and engaging message to boost

your team morale and make them put their hearts into the project.

This is your job as a leader.

Further, if it is the case, set the team for the client kickoff meeting, make

sure that your organization looks good.

To wrap up this lecture, let me just make a quick comment about

the client kickoff meeting.

The main difference here is that, of course, the client will be there.

The overall goal is the same as the internal kickoff meeting,

which includes setting the tone, project vision, scope, and timeline.

However, you will focus more on introducing the client

to the team and vice-versa.

And agreeing with the client, how to effectively work together to

deliver the project successfully.

And this is it, great job!

Now that you know how to conduct a project kickoff meeting, you

are a more empowered leader.

Don't underestimate this technique because it can bring you wonders on your projects.

I will see you in the next lecture.

118.
Kick-off Meeting Agenda Template (Downloadable file)
Hey there, how is it going?



I have prepared a document to help you plan your kick-off meetings!



The document is available here (click here).



To use it, download it or make a copy of the Google Document.



Please, let me know if you have any issues.



Mirko
