In this module, I'm going to teach you what is considered to be the best

technique in the world for you to be as productive and efficient as possible in

carrying out your day-to-day activities.

Getting Things Done or GTD.

With GTD, you will get things done.

It is a very simple but powerful solution for managing your day-to-day

tasks, and it is a technique that I use to manage all my tasks.

The truth is that many people even ask me, "Mirko, how do you

manage to handle so much stuff?"

Maybe you're not aware of what I'm doing today, and I also don't know when are

you going to be watching this video.

After all, these videos are being recorded today but will be watched

for years by a lot of people, and maybe when you watch, I'm doing a lot

more or less things than I do today.

But for you to have an idea, I am the Research Manager

at Virtus Innovation Center.

At Virtus, I manage the Intelligent Software Engineering Group,

where I currently work with a group of researchers and Ph.D.

and master candidates, performing studies on how to improve productivity

in software engineering by applying intelligent techniques, such as artificial

intelligence, Bayesian networks, machine learning, genetic algorithms, and so on.

We are a very productive research group, publishing impactful

scientific papers consistently.

Honestly, this would be already too much to handle because there are

several projects going on at the same time and a lot of scientific

content to be updated with.

But, I also run a startup named KONYU, and I am also starting up

two more companies, Omni Academy, focusing on producing high-quality

online courses, such as this one.

And ScrumPM, a training, and consultancy company on applying Agile Management.

On the personal side, I am married with tchoo daughters . And, you know, I have

all those daily routine tasks, such as grocery, bills to pay and so on.

And I also play tennis.

I played college tennis in the United States when I was younger, and of course,

I don't practice as much today because I used to practice three or four hours

per day, but I still practice enough to be one of the top players in my region.

Plus, I got to find time to keep learning and evolving.

So as you can see, I have lots of stuff to do.

But I managed to get work done.

I have a very intense day-to-day life.

Everything is working out.

Everything is moving, everything is evolving, and in this whole story,

GTD has been literally an essential tool in my personal and professional

life because all that I told you happens with a certain harmony and

efficiency, as incredible as it may seem.

After all, it is really a lot of stuff for one person to handle.

Plenty of things for only one Mirko Perkusich to do, but things have

been going well and have evolved.

However, there are professionals who live this reality of having

many things to do for one person.

And then they complain, you know, this is a lot for me to do alone.

In our modern life, we have so much stuff to do.

There are many emails to send, many others that you have received and have

to process—information,

activities, planning.

We constantly communicate with others through

social networks, always getting

updated with the news, using Twitter, and so on.

So, now we have a very strong demand on a day-to-day basis.

We work, work, work, and still, we feel that we are behind.

As a result, we ended up extrapolating and working 10, 11, 12 hours a day.

Extrapolating work to the next day and making it a routine.

And what happens?

Many people end up mixing their personal time with their

professional life and going crazy.

And the worst of all is when you start to accept that it should be like this.

Life is like this.

You have to give up your personal life to be able to handle your professional life.

There are a lot of people out there who are working three

shifts a day, taking work home.

They are at home thinking about work problems, and then they are at

work thinking about home problems.

And they're so used to it that everything ends up becoming a normal

and acceptable thing, when in fact this is going to destroy your personal life.

As a consequence, we end up having health problems, relationships get destroyed,

and this is very, very frustrating.

Now focusing a little bit on the professional side of our life, the

fact is that we are not prepared in our life to deal with all these

dynamics of the modern world.

The education system at school...

they don't teach us how to deal with this.

So we have today's work environment where priorities change all the time,

new demands appear every minute, and nobody received formal training for this.

And then each one tries their best to manage work in time,

in the best possible way.

But at the end of the day, you work long hours, and you apply your way of

organizing sometimes an organized mess.

So from here on, I will give you as a bonus a good dose of the GTD technique,

which if you listen in practice, you will become someone more efficient, more

productive in all aspects of your life.

It will help you to focus on the right thing at the right time, helping

you to manage your time better.

And, as a consequence, you'll have better results, being much

more productive and efficient.

And to wrap up this lecture, let me tell you one thing, you have enough time to

do every important thing in your life.

This also includes your personal life.

I'm not just talking about the professional life here...

Arnold Schwarzenegger, Albert Einstein, Roger Federer, Michael Jordan, me and you.

We all have 24 hours per day.

The difference is how we go about managing our time, and I'm

sure GTD will change your life.