Let's get started talking about GTD.

So what is GTD?

Essentially, GTD is a productivity tool, period.

GTD was created by David Allen, and it is a solution to manage

your day to day activities, your responsibilities, regardless of what

you do or your area of activity.

It does not matter.

It is completely agnostic.

If you have things to manage your life, activities to do in

your day-to-day, GTD is a way for you to handle them efficiently.

And according to the GTD methodology, for us to be highly productive, we have

to carry out five steps consistently and regularly, that is, without wavering.

So we're going to go through this diagram in later lectures, but now I just want

you to understand that you have to be consistent in what you intend to do.

One of the key principles of GTD is having a clear mind.

I'm not talking here about meditation, yoga, or something similar.

So now you might ask, but Mirko, what does it mean to have a clear mind?

It is simply thinking only about what you need to think and

also do it at the right time.

So, listen well.

It is about thinking only about what you need to think and also thinking

about executing them at the right time.

For example, you know when you're at your desk working on a task, and then

you remember that you still have to make a call today to your sister, for

instance, for arranging about Sunday lunch, then at the same time, an email

arrives in your mailbox, you don't open it, but you see, this is from an important

customer and he's very angry with you.

Just by seeing that email, curiosity hits and urges you to stop whatever

you're doing and read the email.

This, my friend, is not having a clear mind.

What is the outcome?

You're going to be very inefficient.

You will end your day tired, but when you check your work done, you will feel

that you haven't accomplished much.

Now think about it for a little bit.

Have you ever been through something similar?

I'm pretty sure most of you have felt this way before.

I sure have.

This feeling is horrible.

Very discouraging.

Let's try to understand a little bit better what happened.

So, you start to work on the report, and then your mind is divided.

You're thinking about the content of the email you have just

received from an angry client.

Plus, your mind is constantly having to remind you that you still have to call

your sister today to schedule lunch.

So in practice, you're not only writing the report.

You're switching between tasks.

That is, you read an email, answer the email, go back to the report and

then remember to call the sister...

and then go back to the report.

Remember the email...

call the sister, go back to the report...

and then you suddenly remember that you have to give a message to

your boss, then go to the boss's office, go back to the report.

This is not efficient!

So, I'll ask you again.

Have you ever been into this situation?

Well, I can tell you that a lot of people do this.

So, you have some people saying that they're really good at multitasking,

but it's just an illusion.

Science has already shown that you lose 30% of your

productivity when you multitask.

That is, you switch between two or more tasks.

So think about it.

Many people feel very productive and are proud to say that they have so much

stuff to do and that they multitask.

But the current scientific understanding is that they are not

as productive as they could be.

Because 30% of their effort, their energy, their time is lost, wasted.

Isn't this crazy?

So, let's say you work 10 hours per day.

If you multitask, you're wasting three hours.

Three hours per day is a lot of time.

You could be working out, socializing with friends, spending

more time with your family.

And what are you doing?

You're just wasting your time.

And remember, time, my friend, is our greatest asset.

You can't buy time.

You can get poor and then get rich.

You can get fat and then get thin.

You can sometimes get sick and then get healthy.

But time...

you can't go back in time.

No way.

At least that's what we know today, right?

Maybe someone invents a time machine, such as in Terminator, but for

now, you can't go back in time.

You can't buy time.

So here we have our first big takeaway for this course: "being

busy is not being productive."

So now you might understand why you might plan to finish up your work in 8 hours,

but you end up taking 10 hours, and then you have to take work home every day.

So, if you want to be more efficient, you need to have 100%

of your focus on the task at hand.

You need to do one thing at a time, at the right time, having a clear mind.

A final tip related to this point is to turn off notifications.

They are very distracting.

There's nothing worse than, while you're working, you get into that flow, full

productivity mode on, and then bling!

Your phone vibrates!

Or emits a sound, letting you know you got a new email, a new message, a new

engagement on Instagram, or whatever.

A new update on your game, a new app was released.

It's just distracting you.

It's taking control of your time from you.

So just turn them off.

You must be in control of your time, not your phone.

Don't let other people make you busy, distracted, and less productive.

You need to do this for yourself.

Great!

Now, you know, one of the key principles to be productive,

which is having a clear mind.

We as human beings have a lot of concerns, work issues, health,

children, government, and so on.

Having a clear mind is thinking about what can be resolved,

given your current context.

For example, if you're at home, your current context is your home.

So let's suppose it's a Sunday afternoon and you start thinking

about the work problem, a pending issue, an email you have to send,

a phone call you have to make.

Your head is in a chaos of information and concerns about work.

But, guess what?

You're at home, and you cannot solve any of those things right now.

Right by your side, you have your wife or husband, maybe your kids, your children.

And instead of you enjoying your time with them, your head is a mess,

and you get stressed thinking about stuff that you have no control over

at this particular instant of time.

You cannot solve your work problems right now.

And you know what, you shouldn't.

Why?

Because you're out of the context of your work.

So you're just feeling busy, but you're just wasting time and getting

stressed out because you're not going to be able to solve anything right now.

Even worse.

You're going to start your day on Monday, already stressed out, and you might end

up not being productive during the day.

This is a very vicious cycle that can make you very, very sick.

Currently, there's a lot of people talking about a new syndrome, burnout syndrome.

So, you know, you got to really be careful with this.

But then you might think: "but I can work at home.

I could spend my Sunday working..."

But the point is, should you?

Do we really have to work on a Sunday afternoon?

Or is it just because you're not being productive during your work time?

This is the key question.

So a key principle about GTD is not about managing time, but rather a

question of how to have a clear mind.

Got it?

And now, you might ask, but how do I have a clear mind?

First thing, stop using your head to store information.

Using your head for keeping pending work, responsibility,

commitments is not a smart move.

Our mind is not prepared to deal with so much information and to

remember to do everything at the right time without missing anything.

It is just not prepared for this.

So what's the catch?

Our mind is good to perform actions.

So be smart and use it for this purpose and not to be a reminder of stuff to do.

The task of storing information, storing stuff to do should be

delegated to a sheet of paper, your cell phone, a notepad, an agenda.

That's what these things are for.

And you should start now!

Take note of everything that you need to do and store it somewhere.

There are several mobile and web apps available, or you might even

prefer to use a traditional agenda.

You name it, do whatever works best for you.

This is the first step for you to become more productive.

Let me just give you a really quick but valuable tip here.

Always have the means to make quick notes on stuff to do.

Whenever I'm working on my laptop, I always try to have a piece of paper

and a pen available right next to me.

So if I'm working on a report...

so for instance, suppose I'm writing an article.

If somehow I remember about something to do, or I have a

new idea for a new project.

I just write it down immediately.

I just get my pen and write it down on paper.

Very simple, but it has been very helpful for me.

So, you know, just stop using your head to store information.

Just by doing this, you'll end up getting rid of a good part of your stress.

And it is the first step for you to be able to balance your professional

life with your personal life.

Now that you understand the basic principle of GTD, which is to

totally clear our mind and use it to focus on doing one thing at a

time, then we are ready to know the five truly magical steps of GTD.