GTD is composed of five main steps, collect, process,

organize, plan and execute.

Let's start talking about step one, collect.

Collecting is merely making explicit, getting out of your mind, registering

all your concerns, stuff to do, work stuff, personal stuff, everything.

For example, right now, you're watching this video.

And maybe, you're going to remember something that you have to do, make a

call, pay your bill, send an email, visit a friend, making an appointment, study for

a test, or a meeting that you must attend.

So, what to do?

You register!

You register everything that comes to your mind.

Or maybe you're in the car, on the subway, or you're going to bed.

You're going to sleep.

Even in the pool.

Do you remember something that you have to do?

A responsibility, a task.

Get out of the pool, take notes and then come back.

You must always write down what you thought, regardless of the time or place.

I usually have many ideas when I'm already in bed, ready to sleep.

Suddenly, an idea comes, a reminder of something that I have to do,

an email that I have to send, a contact that I need to make.

But, hey!

I'm going to sleep.

So, what to do?

Just go to bed and try to remember it the next day?

Of course not!

I write it down and then concentrate again on going back to sleep peacefully.

I don't have to worry about forgetting my idea because I registered it.

Now, if I go to sleep without taking notes, the next day, I'm going to wake

up, and most probably, I'm not going to remember the idea I had the night before.

You know that situation where, for instance, you're on the subway, and then

you remember: "I have to call Brian."

And then, after five minutes, you're like, I know I had something to do,

but I can't remember it anymore.

Well, maybe it wasn't that important.

So, you know, it was a really straightforward task.

Just call Brian.

You just remembered about that five minutes ago, but you know, we tend to

forget about this stuff because our mind is bombarded with reminders all the time,

but it has a limited space to store them.

At any time, there's no rule for this to happen.

Your mind can come up with something that you have to do.

And then the problem is that the reminders really need to be remembered, because many

of them must generate action on your part.

And if you don't do anything, you can miss an opportunity,

or you can get in deep trouble.

So, the first thing you have to do is collect, register.

Collecting is a continuous effort.

Do you remember something?

Did you have an idea?

Record it!

Take it out of your head, and record it instantly.

You might write it down in a notepad, a notebook, a mobile

app, whatever works best for you.

We will talk more about the tools later.

For now, please just understand this first step, which is fundamental.

For you to understand the importance of recording

everything, let's see an example.

Consider that you're trying to remember a phone number.

If, while you're trying to memorize the number, I start saying random

numbers, what's gonna happen?

You're going to get really confused!

And you know what?

You're going to end up forgetting some numbers.

They will be erased from your mind, completely erased.

This same phenomenon occurs with tasks.

But instead of forgetting numbers, you're going to forget about tasks.

At this point.

I really hope that you're convinced that you need to write down stuff.

You need to collect.

But now, you might ask, but Mirko, how do I collect?

Which tools should I use to record my collection?

For you to have a peaceful mind, you need to be very good at collecting everything.

And the best thing is that you don't need much to collect everything.

You can use a physical means such as a notepad, a calendar, and sticky notes.

As I said in past lectures, I always have a pencil and pen available.

So, if I remember something, I can easily write it down.

Back when I was in college, I had a very intense lifestyle.

I was a student-athlete, and I also worked part-time and was involved

with non-profit organizations.

Furthermore, I had a very busy social life.

One aspect of my college career is that despite having so much going

on is that I was a great student achieving the highest honors.

I got an impressive, almost perfect GPA.

Finishing my undergrad in computer engineering with a 3.9 out of 4 GPA.

I'm not telling all these just to brag about myself.

I'm not this type of person.

The point is that I don't consider myself to be differentiated by birth,

a genius or truly talented gifted individual, far away from this.

I never did an IQ test or whatever, but I consider myself to be average.

I think that the most important factor for my success at that time is that

I had the method to organize work.

And that I was very disciplined and consistent.

At that point, I had a really cheap phone, which only served me

to make phone calls and messaging.

So my solution to collect was very simple.

I always had a piece of paper stick next to my bed, in which I would record all

my responsibilities, homework, projects, study sessions for tests, and so on.

Afterward, I would schedule when to resolve each of my to-do stuff.

That's it, it worked really well!

Just with a pencil and paper.

At that point, I confess that I didn't even know about the existence of GTD,

but I executed a very similar method which had as its foundation, collect.

I would put all my to-do stuff on that piece of paper.

Nowadays, my life is way busier, and we have better technologies.

So, I use web and mobile apps.

Mobile apps are awesome because we always have our smartphones with us.

So, by rule, whenever I'm on the run, and I remember something, I

just register using my mobile app.

Additionally, once a day, I stop and try to remember stuff to do.

And then, I recorded it in the app.

Sometimes I use the mobile app.

Sometimes I use the web app.

I usually do it during the morning.

Other people do it before going to bed at night.

Experiment and do whatever works best for you.

However, If I'm already working on something, as I said in past lectures...

if I'm already writing a report, writing a scientific paper, or whatever, an idea

pops up, and then I don't get my phone.

Because for me, I think that if I stop what I'm doing to get my

phone and then look for the app, I'm going to get distracted.

And guess what?

I might end up losing that 30% of multitasking time.

And I don't want to take this risk.

So something that has been working really well for me is to have a

pencil and paper right by my side.

So whenever I remember something, I just get the pencil, write it down

really fast, and then go back to work.

So, you know, I don't end up losing that 30%...

it is not characterized like multitasking, at least for me,

it's working really, really well.

You should try.

But before going forward, I just want to emphasize that, like with

any process, framework or method, you must not adopt GTD as it is.

You must adapt it, tailor it to your needs.

I'm telling you how GTD works for me.

But you're free to experiment and adapt it to your needs.

Each person has different needs, a different routine, okay?

But, if you need any help or suggestion, just let me know, and

I'll do my best to help you, agreed?

Great.

So let's move on.

So the main point that we have been discussing so far is that if

you remember something, record it.

Use a phone, a piece of paper, whatever suits you best.

But, the second important thing is that you have to forget about it.

You write it down.

And then you'll deal with it later.

You really need to forget about it.

You know why?

Because the main objective of this first step is to clear your mind.

And that is why collection has no time to happen.

It is a continuous effort,

got it?

And, since GTD is very practical, I wanted to make this lecture

very practical for you too.

Therefore, I created a spreadsheet for you to get started applying GTD.

So, pause the video here and download the spreadsheet.

Okay.

So, here we have the spreadsheet.

And, on the home tab, just a quick reference to all the GTD steps.

Let's go to the second tab, inbox.

This is where you register stuff to do...

today, tomorrow, in the next days, next week, whatever you remember...

a call, a job, a visit, an email, a report.

So, before watching the next video, write down things in your inbox.

As you see here, in this example, Where I registered seven things

that I got to get done soon.

So, try to do it for at least seven things and then move on to the next video.