At this point, we have already discussed GTD's this first step, collection.

And now we're going to move on to the next GTD step, process.

Process, is the stage of processing what we have collected.

And for us to proceed, I'm going to present you the GTD

flow chart with more details.

Here we have a more complete flow chart.

Right here, in the beginning, we have the stuff that we have collected in step one.

All the items collected are recorded into the inbox, which here represents your

spreadsheet, notebooks, smartphone, app, agenda, or whatever fits you the best.

Now, already talking about the second step of GTD, which is the process step,

we are going to define the destination of each thing we have collected

each item you have written down.

And to define the destination for each of the items, you start by asking yourself,

should I take any action on this item?

Or, in other words, is this item actionable?

Examples of yes answers would be an action that I must do.

That is, make a phone call, write an email, work on a document,

take an online course...

But maybe it might be something with no value for me, such as receiving an email

of stuff that I am not interested in.

So, what do I do?

I trash it.

Or maybe a second alternative, something with value, but not for now.

Maybe, it's an idea of a book or a course that I would like to take, but recognize

that it's not important for me right now.

So, I won't really need to take action now.

So what do I do?

I store it at someday or maybe, and that is why we have a tab called

someday/maybe in your spreadsheet.

So in this tab, you have things that maybe one day you will do.

For example, an idea that you took note of, but you're not going to plan or

execute right now, for instance, I know I need to paint my room, but not today.

Maybe next week, maybe two weeks from now.

I don't know.

I'm not going to plan this right now.

So, in these situations, what do you do?

Just add it to the someday/maybe list, take it out of your head, got it?

And the third possible destination for non-actionable

items is simply to archive them.

The best example for this is an email, you know that email that you have read,

but you don't have to take any action on it, but also you don't want to delete

it because it can be useful sometime...

maybe you receive a copy of a contract, or your insurance policy.

There is no action you need to take on it.

Hopefully, you'll never need it, but you better store it.

I like to file, to save as reference content that I know that sometime it

might come very handy, such as templates and guidelines for how to create a resume

maybe, or maybe websites with interesting online courses that I could take.

Also, for instance, I produce a lot of content daily, be it for teaching

something, publishing a scientific article, or more industry-focused

papers on project management, software engineering, productivity, and such.

So, whenever I come across interesting blog posts, scientific articles,

examples, books, and so on...

that I think that might come in handy for me as a reference in the

future, maybe to reuse in an example or something, I just record it.

And this simple task of referencing might save you a lot of time.

Therefore, we have three possible destinations for non-actionable items.

It either goes to waste, the list of someday/maybe, or you

will save it as a reference.

Got it?

So, at this point, we have covered the initial part of processing.

We are separating the items that we must act upon from the others.

Think of it as a filter.

As input, you had all your stuff, and as output, you will only have

to worry about the actionable stuff.

All the other stuff you have already classified as waste, someday/maybe, or

you have filed for future reference.

Great!

Now it's time to see what happens with the actionable stuff.

In other words, stuff that you must take action.

So coming back to this image...

we are done with this part, and now we have to worry about these ones.

And, at this point, you need to ask yourself, what is the

first action on the given item?

Or what is the next action on the given item?

You think about what's the first thing you need to do to accomplish the item.

Is it making a phone call, answering an email, generating

a report, creating a checklist?

So now you need to think about this.

If you have an item that is just about making a phone call, just writing an

email, or just a little short report.

You can get it done in just one action.

In one sitting, you get it done.

Do you agree?

If it's just about making a call, you just make it, and then you're done.

If you just need to reply to an email, you just sit reply or

email, and you're done, right?

Your problem is solved, but there are also some items that require

more than one action to be resolved.

For example, if you need to plan a vacation trip.

In that case, what would be the first action?

Maybe you're gonna call the travel agency.

But, you know you're going to have to look for hotels, put together a

vacation script, maybe invite friends.

So a vacation trip is like a multi-step planning item.

So in GTD, we call this a project.

And, in our spreadsheet, you're going to place projects in a specific

destination, which is your project's tab.

Then, you're going to fill the lines with the projects, and you just need to

register the first action to be performed.

You don't have to think about all the steps, just the first

one, the next one, got it?

So this is what you do when you have multi-step items.

You just store it as a project and think about the next action.

So, now we have just talked about this one.

Now, what do you do?

If you have an item that only requires one action to be completed?

The first thing you do is to check if it can be done in less than two minutes.

If yes, what do you do?

Do it!

Do not leave it for later.

Do not write it down elsewhere.

Do not schedule.

Just solve it right now.

If it takes at most two minutes, just kill it, solve it right now.

The idea here is to avoid having you wasting more time managing a

to-do list than getting work done.

So, an example here is just a short email that you have to answer or

maybe a message from your boss, but a really simple message.

So just reply to it really fast whenever you're processing.

Now, if the item cannot be solved in two minutes, what do you do?

Let's talk about this in the next lecture.

I'll see you there.