At this point, we have a task that needs to be done, and that

takes more than two minutes.

What to do?

Well, the next question you should ask yourself is: should it be resolved by me,

or could someone else perform this action?

If you can delegate it to someone else, you're going to store

this item on the "waiting" list.

So, here in our spreadsheet, we have a "waiting" tab.

If you prefer, you can name it as delegated, whatever you want.

And in this list, you will put everything that you have delegated to someone

else, but that you need to follow up until they send you the result, okay?

If needed, don't forget to put the name of the person responsible and any deadlines.

This information is important so that, you know, when you should check with the

responsible about the given tasks status.

Here, what I usually do is to put reminders for myself about

when should I check with the responsible for the current status.

For instance, I might do it every day at 9:00 AM.

And what I always do is make a quick note whenever I have this status.

So, for instance, on Monday morning, I get a status from John.

Then he tells me what it has accomplished as of now.

So I take a quick note then on Tuesday morning, I check again.

So when I do that, I can compare what John says he has accomplished until Tuesday

and compare what he has done from Monday.

And then I can see if you really evolved, and I can check if

he needs help or something.

Okay?

And I need to say, when I started doing this, it helped me a lot.

I have a lot of work that I need to delegate.

Now, if it shouldn't be solved by someone else, that is, it must be solved by you,

and you can't solve it in two minutes, there are two possible destinations.

The first destination is the calendar.

This is the case when you have a specific date or time.

Maybe, for instance, a meeting or maybe a bill that you have to pay.

That is, if you have something that needs to be executed on a specific

date, then you go to a calendar.

And now, you might ask, but Mirko, what calendar should I use?

Well, I suggest if you have a Gmail account, a Google account,

just use the Google calendar.

That's what I use.

So I have here the Google calendar.

And, if you have an email from Google, you just need to type calendar.google.com.

And it's really easy to use.

Just click on the time slots and schedule your actions, okay?

If you prefer, you can also use a traditional physical calendar.

You just need something that has all the days of the year.

But I prefer to use digital tools.

The second possible destination is the "next actions" list.

So in our spreadsheet, we have a "Next Actions" tab.

In this list, you're going to report everything you need to do but that you

don't have a specific date to perform it.

You just know you need to do it as soon as possible, got it?

So now you know what to do with each of the types of stuff that you

have identified in the "collect" step, you have processed everything.

The goal of the GTD process stage is to process all the collected items.

In other words, your inbox needs to be empty because you have given a

destination to all the collected stuff.

And now you might ask, but Mirko, when should I do this?

You need to do it every day.

Systematically.

No exceptions.

Some people need to do it just once a day.

In fact, that's what most people do.

They do it once a day, for instance, at the end of the day, before going to bed.

Others need to do it multiple times a day.

For instance, I need to do it multiple times a day.

Why?

Because I work with a lot of projects in parallel.

So I have many things going on.

Lots of tasks delegated.

And as the manager, one of the most important points is

to be available whenever the team needs my help or feedback.

So, if someone needs my help at 10:00 AM, they will request my help through

email or the instant messaging app of choice for the given project.

And, you know, I rarely answer the phone unless I know it's

something very, very critical.

But why Mirko?

Because I control my time, not other people, okay?

So let's say that Brian is working with me on a scientific article, and he's stuck.

So he sends me an email asking for help at 10:00 AM.

If I only answer Brian at the end of the day, I might be wasting

Brian's entire day of work.

And guess what?

Sometimes it is stuff that I can figure it out in two minutes.

Not necessarily giving him the answer, but pointing him in the right direction.

Maybe a book, another article, or telling him to talk to John, who I

know is an expert in the field, got it?

That is why I do micro-processing multiple times per day, but

you don't have to do it.

Most of you can do it just once a day, and you'll be fine.

The only rule here is to do it daily with no exceptions.

So summarizing, what is your goal here?

You need to empty your "inbox" list.

That's it.

Give destination for everything.

And what do you do?

You follow the flow.

So before moving on to a practical example, let's just

make a really brief summary.

Given that you have your "inbox" list, you define if the items are actionable or not.

If not, you have three destinations: you trash it, you put it on somebody/maybe,

or you file it for reference.

If they're actionable, now you to think, is it a multi-step item or not?

If it is, you're going to store it as a project.

If not, you're going to process it.

If it takes less than two minutes, just do it.

If not, you need to ask yourself, am I the one responsible or the

one that should take an action?

Or not?

If not, you delegate it, and you put it for you're "waiting for" lists.

If not, if it's you the responsible, you need to check if: does it have to

be done at a specific date and time?

If yes, put it in your calendar, such as Google Calendar.

Otherwise, you just add it to your "next actions" list.

And that's it.

So, what have we done by now?

We have collected all the things to do, and we have given

a destination for everything.

But before going to organize, let's see an example.

So here we have my "inbox" list.

And the first item is to send emails to investors.

So this is a one-action item.

So what do I do?

I move it to the next action step.

So you can see here, my first action is to send emails to investors.

So what do I do now?

I delete it from my inbox.

The next item is to plan a vacation.

Planning a vacation is a multi-step action.

So what do I do?

I add it to the "project" list, and I define my next action,

which is calling the agency trip.

Okay?

Done.

Let's delete it from the inbox.

The next step is build Scrum.PM Website, which is similar to the next one,

which is build OMNI.Academy Website and they're all multi-step actions.

So what do I do?

I add it to the projects.

As you can see here, build Scrum.PM Website, and build OMNI.Academy Website.

And what are the next actions?

For both of them, just define the content.

Of course, I know there's more stuff to do, such as defining the design, building

the website, deploying it, and whatever, but for now, I just need the next action.

So I'm done.

So go back here and delete these two items.

Next item is to organize slides for keynote.

So I'm assuming here, which is the case, that I already

have a lot of content ready.

I just need to organize them.

So in one sitting, I'm done.

So I'm going to put this for my "Next actions" list.

And here it is.

Great.

So I'm going to delete it from my inbox.

And then, next step.

Next action is review Manuel's scientific paper, and also, the paper

is already done from his perspective.

I just need to sit and review.

Therefore I define it as one action item and put it on the "next actions" list.

Great?

So I can delete it from my inbox.

And the last item that I had in my inbox was scheduled

interviews with Konyu's clients.

So this one is also a multi-step item.

So I add it to the "projects" tab.

And my next action is to identify five potential business customers.

And with this, I have my inbox clear.

And I'm finally done with processing.

Now, it's your turn.

Process your inbox.

Afterward, move to the next video, where we're going to organize the work.