And now that we have collected and processed all of our items, we

are going to move on to the third step of GTD, which is, organize.

And look, if you notice, with GTD, we're building our own

personal information system.

A private information system only related to our stuff.

We are feeding this system with information, and what does it do?

It is reminding you of what you need to do in the time when you need to do it.

So, we don't have to use our brains to remember anything.

You don't have to keep anything in your mind.

Everything you need to do will be in this information system of yours.

So, that is why it is important to collect and process very well.

The principle of GTD is to empty your mind and use it for only one

purpose, which is to perform actions.

Our information system consists of a few lists and a calendar.

And it is important for you to understand that it doesn't

have to be something complex.

A simple sheet of paper might be enough.

Just take a sheet of paper, write a title on it.

And that's it.

You already have a list in your hand.

Your information system.

If you prefer a mobile app, great.

There are a lot of to-do list apps available.

In this course, we are seeing how to use a spreadsheet for this purpose.

Having multiple tabs to organize your lists.

And this is a very personal choice.

You do it, whatever works best for you.

Experiment.

The important thing here is now we're going to create different areas to

put information on them, and these areas, we're going to call them lists.

So at this point, we already have some lists.

Lists for "next action," "maybe/someday," for "projects", for "waiting."

But now, in this step, in the "organization" step, you will, given

your personal needs, break down the list into more refined, contextualized lists.

For instance, right now, I have one tab, one list of "projects."

What you can do is to divide this project list into two different

lists, one for personal projects and another one for professional projects.

For instance, in my case, I could have a personal project list,

a project list only for Virtus.

Another one for Scrum.PM.

Another one for Omni Academy.

Another one for Konyu.

So I could have multiple lists.

So right here, these are just some examples of different types

of lists that you could have.

And if you're using the spreadsheet, how do you implement this?

Just create more tabs.

Give them the names so that you can recognize the type of task that you need

to do and do it according to your needs.

Personally, in particular, me Mirko Perkusich, I like to

have a few lists as possible.

I feel that if I have a lot of lists, it would just increase the complexity

of me having to manage a lot of stuff.

Okay?

But I'm just going to give you an example of why classifying lists

might be a good idea for you.

So suppose you're at home.

When you're at home, what should you be doing?

You should be doing stuff related to your home.

So you can go directly to your home list.

If I'm at Virtus, whenever I'm there, I can open my Virtus to-do list.

If you're going to the supermarket, you can open your supermarket to-do list.

Got it?

So in this step, you're going to organize better your information system, maybe

breaking down the previous list that we already have, the generic lists,

into categories that best suits you.

So this is a really personal choice.

And the only thing I can recommend you is to experiment

and see what works best for you.

So now stop a little bit.

And before going to the next video, try to organize your stuff.

Remember, this is not a one thing you do, and never do it again.

You can refine your process continuously.

Okay?

So try to do it, try to do your first version, try to define the

lists that are important for you.

That makes sense for you.

And then you move on to the next video, in which you're going to

talk about the planning stage.