We haved all reached stage four of GTD, the planning stage.

Also called the review stage, which for me is the most fun stage, the coolest

one, because until now, we have already processed and organized everything.

And now, it is time for planning.

Here, I prioritize what I have to do in the next few days in the next week.

So I'm going to define what do I need to have done by the end of the next week, but

also what I'm not going to do next week.

And this one is very important too.

Because sometimes we put a lot of things to do during the following week, or

the next days, and we end up not even doing 50% of what we have planned.

So now we're going to learn how to do it correctly and efficiently so that

you get productive and not frustrated.

And how are we going to do that?

How are you going to plan your next week?

This first step works as follows: once a week, you must review your items.

And where are they stored?

Your lists and calendar.

Remember, there are only two destinations possible for stuff that you need to do

and are collected and processed, either one of your lists or your calendar.

Then once a week, you're going to stop, review these items and determine

what are you going to do next week.

It is suggested that you should do this every Friday morning because

generally you're well energized at the beginning of the day.

So you're going to get all your lists and choose which tasks are the most

important and urgent ones, and simply insert tasks into your calendar.

In other words, you're going to reserve separate time from your

calendar to perform the tasks.

At this point, I think you're already convinced that you need to plan your work.

You need to schedule all your work.

And you need to do it once a week.

But what do you do during this session?

What exactly do you do whenever you stop, for instance, every Friday morning,

for 30 minutes to plan your next week.

What do you do?

Well, the first thing you need to do is collect everything that needs to be done.

So you have been doing this continuously throughout the week, but this is a

time that you are going to do it again.

Try to remember everything, collect everything, process everything,

to make sure that during the next week you'll have your mind clear.

You won't have to remember anything, okay?

And then, after doing that, you're going to review your "action" lists.

If you have stuff done, mark it as done.

And, if you have really important stuff, you can already

schedule them right now, okay?

Then, go to the last calendar, reschedule tasks that were not done.

After doing that, the next step is to allocate time for each week's task.

In other words, you're going to review or plan your next calendar.

After doing that, you can review your waiting lists.

You're going to see all the tasks that you have delegated to people

and then do an update if necessary.

But, please understand.

Here is what you're going to do during this session.

For instance, review your waiting list.

You can do it during this section, but this doesn't mean that you don't need

to do it the other days of the week.

You might have to do it daily, for instance, or every two days.

It all depends on your personal needs.

The next step is to review your projects.

So we're going to review each project and define the next action.

If necessary, afterward, you might want to review your "maybe/someday" lists

because all your lists must be updated.

So, at this point, you might decide that maybe you're going to

really paint your room next week.

So you make it active.

So, it's going to become an active item that's going to your "next

actions" list, or maybe you're not going to do anything about it.

Just keep it as "maybe/someday," or maybe you're going to see, okay.

This doesn't make sense to me anymore.

Just remove it.

Why?

So you don't have a polluted list of maybe/someday actions.

Just make sure you don't have like garbage over there, okay?

And finally is: be creative and courageous.

Think about new projects, create new stuff so that you're always evolving

in your personal and professional life.

And please don't make too many items.

Don't try to solve everything in your next week.

There is no use in filling your calendar with stuff that you

won't have enough time to do it.

Don't underestimate effort.

If you need like two hours to do something, don't think you're

going to get it done in 30 minutes.

A tip that I can give it to you is that don't schedule

eight hours of work per day.

Because nobody can work eight hours per day.

You need to take a break, you need to go to the bathroom, you get

called in the last-minute meeting, you get called to help someone

else, you need to have a snack...

And there is stuff that...

unforeseen stuff that eventually might happen.

So, you know, literally, nobody can work eight hours per day.

So, what I suggest is that you per day only schedule six hours of work.

The idea here is that you don't get frustrated if you don't get done with

your stuff if you have scheduled eight hours per day because nobody can do it.

Just do it at most six hours per day.

And then you do it for the first week, for the second week.

And then, with time, you're going to refine your process

and be more efficient, got it?

So by completing this planning step, What is the result?

Well,

you have a plan of what

you need to do for next week and what's the next step?

Execution.