And finally, we are here.

We are on the last step of GTD, execute.

Have you ever been in the situation of arriving at work on Monday,

Tuesday, Wednesday morning...

and then you think: "Hmm, what am I going to do now?

I have so much stuff to do..."

with urgency, priority that you don't know where to start.

With GTD, forget about this.

Why?

Because when you arrive at work, you are ready to execute.

You just open your plan and execute the plan.

Just do it.

Why did you have all the work of collecting, processing and organizing?

So that when you're ready to work, when you arrive at work on Monday morning,

you don't have to think about it.

Just Execute.

Now, it's time that you're going to really produce value.

No more thinking or planning.

You just got to stop and do exactly what you need to do.

Now.

Of course, it is also important to know that the calendar is flexible.

It will happen that you schedule to start a task at 10:00 AM, but then a

customer has an issue and calls you.

Or your team has an impediment, so you've got to stop whatever

you're doing and help them.

So, instead of working on the planned task at 10:00 AM, you might start

at 10 30 or maybe a little earlier.

It will all depend on the situation, but the important thing.

Is that you have to have your priorities and goals for each day of the week,

and they need to be planned in advance during the planning stage so that during

the week, you just need to go there and accomplish whatever you have planned.

Make it happen!

No more.

Decision-making about planning because you have already done it.

You can see it.

You see it on your schedule.

You just go and do it.

And remember what I said about only scheduling six hours per day?

Because you have approximately two hours to accommodate whatever

new stuff happens during the week.

And, I guarantee that if you follow what I have been teaching

you here in this course, you will always do the most important work.

And I'll tell you, one of the major causes of stress in people

is that they're doing something, thinking that they should be doing

something else, maybe more important.

With GTD, your mind is right here with you.

Always at war with you.

You will plan on Friday, and in the following week, you just execute.

But, of course, you need to be smart enough to always have room

on your schedule to accommodate that actual work that might happen.

So, to wrap up this lecture and to summarize everything

that we have discussed, GTD.

What have we just done?

We separate some time during the week to calmly set priorities

and schedule all work.

And then, we have peace of mind on the remaining time of the week to execute.

So what we are doing here?

We are separating concerns.

We're separating time for planning and for execution to avoid multitasking

and to make you waste your time.

And, when I say waste your time, I'm saying wasting your life.

Okay?

And this is it.

This was the last stage of GTD.

Great job.