Welcome to our Crash Course on Leadership.

Here, you will learn what are the skills and characteristics of a good leader.

And what path should you take to develop different skills throughout your career.

Perhaps, you are already a good leader.

Maybe you have already developed the skills, characteristics,

and profile of a good leader.

So I hope that you will leave here...

You will leave this course even more inspired as a leader

to develop yourself further.

And if you're that person who has not yet developed as a leader, your

communication is still not so good.

You still can't inspire other people.

Lead other people well.

You will certainly leave this course with better directions, with clarity as to

which path you need to follow in order to develop yourself as a good leader.

And first of all, what we need to understand is: what is leadership?

What does it mean to be a leader?

I like a definition...

in fact, you will find many definitions on the internet, from authors and books.

Different definitions of leadership.

And here's one that I consider the most accurate, the most complete one.

That says that: "Leadership is the art of leading people to achieve successfully

the results that were planned."

So, leadership is about dealing with other people.

You take these other people, you drive, you pull the car, and lead

these people to achieve the results you and them want successfully.

So leadership is closely related to the ability to influence and direct

other people to achieve a common goal.

This ability is one of the main characteristics that help

the professional to stand out.

Both in personal and professional life.

And as I said, it is very rare to find good leaders.

And then maybe the first thing that crosses your mind is whether this

ability, this skill to influence, communicate, direct other people, is

a natural gift, a talent, or a skill that can be developed throughout life.

I hear many people insisting on saying that leadership is a gift.

You're either born with it or not.

It is part of their DNA.

And then at that moment, when I hear someone saying something like

this, I remember some very famous professionals, very well-known people

who worked really hard, but people tend to say that they're gifted.

Let's start talking about this guy.

Have you ever heard of Rogerio Ceni?

If you haven't, let me just give you one number.

He played soccer or football, depending on where you're from.

And, he was a goalkeeper.

But he scored 131 goals during his career.

He used to play for Sao Paulo, which is one of the most successful Brazilian

teams, having won three times the world championship beating teams such

as Milan, Barcelona, and Liverpool.

And guess what?

He's in the club's top ten goal scorers list.

He was a top team scorer for two years in a row.

I mean, this is amazing.

He holds the World Record for goals for a goalkeeper.

Just for you to have an idea of the dimension of what Rogerio has done,

the number two is Chilavert from Paraguay, scoring 67 goals, almost

half the goal scored by Rogerio.

However, there is more.

Chilavert scored less than 20 free-kick goals, most of them were

from penalty, which are way easier.

Rogerio scored over 60 free-kick goals.

So, I mean, it is amazing.

So, one would say: "Rogerio is so talented, right?"

Once in an interview, Rogerio Ceni said that before attempting to hit

his first free kick in a match, he practiced hitting 15,000 free kicks.

His routine was to always be the first to arrive and the last to leave practice,

hitting around 3000 free kicks per month.

And all by himself.

So, you tell me, is Rogerio Ceni just a lucky, gifted, super talented person?

No, he worked hard, very hard.

And with really high consistency.

Let's see another Brazilian football player, Pele.

Considered by many the best football player ever.

People talk a lot about his talents and that he scored over a thousand goals, but

people don't mention that his father kept him training two hours extra every day.

So his father would take him to practice, and every day, he would

practice two hours additionally when compared to all the other guys.

Now Kobe Bryant, one of the best basketball players ever...

He was so talented, right?

Since a young age, he would wake up every day at 4:00 AM to practice.

Oscar Schmidt, one of the best Brazilian basketball players ever.

He was known as having the "Holy hand" because he was

mortal on three-point shooting.

And guess what?

He hated being calling like that.

Once during an interview, he said that his hand wasn't Holy.

It was trained.

Tiger Woods,

for our last example.

He has a very funny phrase where he says: "the more I train, the luckier, I get".

Tiger Woods is one of the best golfers ever.

And you know, golf is a pretty hard sport!

You have to hit the ball and make it go in a small hole placed

very, very far away from you.

So, sometimes people say that whenever they get a great shot

is the result of being lucky.

That's why he said that the more I train, the luckier I get.

Because the more I train, the more I hit the balls, so higher are

the chances of getting them in.

Thus, the point here is that I am aware that some people are talented.

They were born to perform a given task, such as being

really good at a given sport.

Maybe they were born with the right height, body mass, and mentality.

Of course, not everybody can be the number one, the best in the world.

Only the ones with raw talent, and that worked really, really hard.

Notice what I said.

They are really hard workers.

They work really, really hard.

Go ask Roger Federer, LeBron James, Michael Jordan, Steve

Jobs, Beyonce, you name it.

Name a successful person.

Ask them if they are talented.

I am pretty sure that most of them will feel insulted because they

worked really hard to get there.

Michael Jordan wasn't born knowing how to throw a ball.

He learned through practice, lots of practice.

But notice that what I just said, not everybody can be the number one.

But guess what?

It's okay not to be the number one.

You can still be pretty good.

You can still work for top companies.

I firmly believe that we are all capable of reaching great goals in

our professional and personal lives.

You want to play.

You want to learn a sport, play an instrument, program

a computer, you can do it!

Anyone can do it!

It doesn't mean that everybody can be a software engineer at Google or

Facebook, for instance because they have a limited amount of people they can

hire, but you can still be really good.

You can be a really good software engineer, project manager...

and work for good companies, or maybe create your own.

I think a little bit with me if we can learn all these things,

why can't we learn to lead?

Of course, we can learn how to lead.

You can become a great leader.

Some will have to work harder than others, but it is possible.

So the first thing is to define the correct mindset.

You need a growth mindset.

Don't be like most people that believe that talent defines their destiny.

You define your destiny on whatever field you are by your hard work and consistency.

Therefore, it is up to you.

So right now, it doesn't matter if you're not a great communicator.

If you don't know how to deal or inspire people, or if you're shy.

Just pay attention what I'm going to teach you from here on, and you will be

on the right path to become a good leader.

Ready?

So, let's move to our next lecture!

See you there!